BBE

Genesis 1:1 At the first God made the heaven and the earth.
Genesis 1:2 And the earth was waste and without form; and it was dark on the face of the deep: and the Spirit of God was moving on the face of the waters.
Genesis 1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
Genesis 1:4 And God, looking on the light, saw that it was good: and God made a division between the light and the dark,
Genesis 1:5 Naming the light, Day, and the dark, Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day.
Genesis 1:6 And God said, Let there be a solid arch stretching over the waters, parting the waters from the waters.
Genesis 1:7 And God made the arch for a division between the waters which were under the arch and those which were over it: and it was so.
Genesis 1:8 And God gave the arch the name of Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, the second day.
Genesis 1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heaven come together in one place, and let the dry land be seen: and it was so.
Numbers 1:1 And the Lord said to Moses in the waste land of Sinai, in the Tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they came out of the land of Egypt,
Numbers 1:2 Take the full number of the children of Israel, by their families, and by their fathers' houses, every male by name;
Numbers 1:3 All those of twenty years old and over, who are able to go to war in Israel, are to be numbered by you and Aaron.
Numbers 1:4 And to give you help, take one man from every tribe, the head of his father's house.
Numbers 1:5 These are the names of those who are to be your helpers: from Reuben, Elizur, the son of Shedeur;
Numbers 1:6 From Simeon, Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai;
Numbers 1:7 From Judah, Nahshon, the son of Amminadab;
Numbers 1:8 From Issachar, Nethanel, the son of Zuar;
Numbers 2:1 And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron,
Numbers 2:2 The children of Israel are to put up their tents in the order of their families, by the flags of their fathers' houses, facing the Tent of meeting on every side.
Numbers 2:3 Those whose tents are on the east side, looking to the dawn, will be round the flag of the children of Judah, with Nahshon, the son of Amminadab, as their chief.
Numbers 2:4 The number of his army was seventy-four thousand, six hundred.
Numbers 2:5 And nearest to him will be the tribe of Issachar, with Nethanel, the son of Zuar, as their chief.
Numbers 2:6 The number of his army was fifty-four thousand, four hundred.
Numbers 2:7 After him, the tribe of Zebulun, with Eliab, the son of Helon, as their chief.
Numbers 3:1 Now these are the generations of Aaron and Moses, in the day when the word of the Lord came to Moses on Mount Sinai.
Numbers 3:2 These are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the oldest, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Numbers 3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests, on whom the holy oil was put, who were marked out as priests.
Numbers 3:4 And Nadab and Abihu were put to death before the Lord when they made an offering of strange fire before the Lord, in the waste land of Sinai, and they had no children: and Eleazar and Ithamar did the work of priests before Aaron their father.
Numbers 3:5 And the Lord said to Moses,
Numbers 3:6 Make the tribe of Levi come near, and put them before Aaron the priest, to be his helpers,
Numbers 3:7 In order that they may be responsible to him and to all Israel for the care of the Tent of meeting, and to do the work of the House;
Numbers 3:8 And they will have the care of all the vessels of the Tent of meeting, and will do for the children of Israel all the necessary work of the House.
Numbers 3:9 Give the Levites to Aaron and his sons; so that they may be his without question from among the children of Israel.
Numbers 3:10 And give orders that Aaron and his sons are to keep their place as priests; any strange person who comes near is to be put to death.
Numbers 3:11 And the Lord said to Moses,
1 Samuel 1:1 Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim, a Zuphite of the hill-country of Ephraim, named Elkanah; he was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite:
1 Samuel 1:2 And he had two wives, one named Hannah and the other Peninnah: and Peninnah was the mother of children, but Hannah had no children.
1 Samuel 1:3 Now this man went up from his town every year to give worship and to make offerings to the Lord of armies in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of the Lord, were there.
1 Samuel 1:4 And when the day came for Elkanah to make his offering, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, their part of the feast:
1 Samuel 1:5 But to Hannah he gave one part, though Hannah was very dear to him, but the Lord had not let her have children.
1 Samuel 1:6 And the other wife did everything possible to make her unhappy, because the Lord had not let her have children;
1 Samuel 1:7 And year by year, whenever she went up to the house of the Lord, she kept on attacking her, so that Hannah gave herself up to weeping and would take no food.
1 Samuel 1:8 Then her husband Elkanah said to her, Hannah, why are you weeping? and why are you taking no food? why is your heart troubled? am I not more to you than ten sons?
1 Samuel 1:9 So after they had taken food and wine in the guest room, Hannah got up. Now Eli the priest was seated by the pillars of the doorway of the Temple of the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:10 And with grief in her soul, weeping bitterly, she made her prayer to the Lord.
2 Samuel 1:1 Now after the death of Saul, when David, having come back from the destruction of the Amalekites, had been in Ziklag for two days;
2 Samuel 1:2 On the third day a man came from Saul's tents, with his clothing out of order and earth on his head: and when he came to David, he went down on the earth and gave him honour.
2 Samuel 1:3 And David said to him, Where have you come from? And he said, I have come in flight from the tents of Israel.
2 Samuel 1:4 And David said to him, How did things go? Give me the news. And in answer he said, The people have gone in flight from the fight, and a great number of them are dead; and Saul and his son Jonathan are dead.
2 Samuel 1:5 And David said to the young man who gave him the news, Why are you certain that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?
2 Samuel 1:6 And the young man said, I came by chance to Mount Gilboa, and I saw Saul supporting himself on his spear; and the war-carriages and horsemen overtook him.
2 Samuel 1:7 And looking back, he saw me and gave a cry to me. And answering him I said, Here am I.
2 Samuel 1:8 And he said to me, Who are you? And I said, I am an Amalekite.
Psalms 1:1 Happy is the man who does not go in the company of sinners, or take his place in the way of evil-doers, or in the seat of those who do not give honour to the Lord.
Psalms 1:2 But whose delight is in the law of the Lord, and whose mind is on his law day and night.
Psalms 1:3 He will be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, which gives its fruit at the right time, whose leaves will ever be green; and he will do well in all his undertakings.
Psalms 1:4 The evil-doers are not so; but are like the dust from the grain, which the wind takes away.
Psalms 1:5 For this cause there will be no mercy for sinners when they are judged, and the evil-doers will have no place among the upright,
Psalms 1:6 Because the Lord sees the way of the upright, but the end of the sinner is destruction.
Psalms 2:1 Why are the nations so violently moved, and why are the thoughts of the people so foolish?
Psalms 2:2 The kings of the earth have taken their place, and the rulers are fixed in their purpose, against the Lord, and against the king of his selection, saying,
Psalms 2:3 Let their chains be broken, and their cords taken from off us.
Psalms 2:4 Then he whose seat is in the heavens will be laughing: the Lord will make sport of them.
Psalms 2:5 Then will his angry words come to their ears, and by his wrath they will be troubled:
Psalms 2:6 But I have put my king on my holy hill of Zion.
Psalms 2:7 I will make clear the Lord's decision: he has said to me, You are my son, this day have I given you being.
Psalms 2:8 Make your request to me, and I will give you the nations for your heritage, and the farthest limits of the earth will be under your hand.
Psalms 2:9 They will be ruled by you with a rod of iron; they will be broken like a potter's vessel.
Psalms 2:10 So now be wise, you kings: take his teaching, you judges of the earth.
Psalms 2:11 Give worship to the Lord with fear, kissing his feet and giving him honour,
Psalms 2:12 For fear that he may be angry, causing destruction to come on you, because he is quickly moved to wrath. Happy are all those who put their faith in him.
Psalms 3:1  Lord, how greatly are they increased who make attacks on me! in great numbers they come against me.
Psalms 3:2 Unnumbered are those who say of my soul, There is no help for him in God. (Selah.)
Psalms 3:3 But your strength, O Lord, is round me, you are my glory and the lifter up of my head.
Psalms 3:4 I send up a cry to the Lord with my voice, and he gives me an answer from his holy hill. (Selah.)
Psalms 3:5 I took my rest in sleep, and then again I was awake; for the Lord was my support.
Psalms 3:6 I will have no fear, though ten thousand have come round me, putting themselves against me.
Psalms 3:7 Come to me, Lord; keep me safe, O my God; for you have given all my haters blows on their face-bones; the teeth of the evil-doers have been broken by you.
Psalms 3:8 Salvation comes from the Lord; your blessing is on your people. (Selah.)
Psalms 4:1  Give answer to my cry, O God of my righteousness; make me free from my troubles; have mercy on me, and give ear to my prayer.
Psalms 4:2 O you sons of men, how long will you go on turning my glory into shame? how long will you give your love to foolish things, going after what is false? (Selah.)
Psalms 4:3 See how the Lord has made great his mercy for me; the Lord will give ear to my cry.
Psalms 4:4 Let there be fear in your hearts, and do no sin; have bitter feelings on your bed, but make no sound. (Selah.)
Psalms 4:5 Give the offerings of righteousness, and put your faith in the Lord.
Psalms 4:6 There are numbers who say, Who will do us any good? the light of his face has gone from us.
Psalms 4:7 Lord, you have put joy in my heart, more than they have when their grain and their wine are increased.
Psalms 4:8 I will take my rest on my bed in peace, because you only, Lord, keep me safe.
Psalms 5:1  Give ear to my words, O Lord; give thought to my heart-searchings.
Psalms 5:2 Let the voice of my cry come to you, my King and my God; for to you will I make my prayer.
Psalms 5:3 My voice will come to you in the morning, O Lord; in the morning will I send my prayer to you, and keep watch.
Psalms 5:4 For you are not a God who takes pleasure in wrongdoing; there is no evil with you.
Psalms 5:5 The sons of pride have no place before you; you are a hater of all workers of evil.
Psalms 5:6 You will send destruction on those whose words are false; the cruel man and the man of deceit are hated by the Lord.
Psalms 5:7 But as for me, I will come into your house, in the full measure of your mercy; and in your fear I will give worship, turning my eyes to your holy Temple.
Psalms 5:8 Be my guide, O Lord, in the ways of your righteousness, because of those who are against me; make your way straight before my face.
Psalms 5:9 For no faith may be put in their words; their inner part is nothing but evil; their throat is like an open place for the dead; smooth are the words of their tongues.
Psalms 5:10 Send them to destruction, O Lord; let their evil designs be the cause of their fall; let them be forced out by all their sins; because they have gone against your authority.
Psalms 5:11 But let all those who put their faith in you be glad with cries of joy at all times, and let all the lovers of your name be glad in you.
Psalms 5:12 For you, Lord, will send a blessing on the upright man; your grace will be round him, and you will be his strength.
Psalms 6:1  O Lord, do not be bitter with me in your wrath; do not send punishment on me in the heat of your passion.
Psalms 6:2 Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I am wasted away: make me well, for even my bones are troubled.
Psalms 6:3 My soul is in bitter trouble; and you, O Lord, how long?
Psalms 6:4 Come back, O Lord, make my soul free; O give me salvation because of your mercy.
Psalms 6:5 For in death there is no memory of you; in the underworld who will give you praise?
Psalms 6:6 The voice of my sorrow is a weariness to me; all the night I make my bed wet with weeping; it is watered by the drops flowing from my eyes.
Psalms 6:7 My eyes are wasting away with trouble; they are becoming old because of all those who are against me.
Psalms 6:8 Go from me, all you workers of evil; for the Lord has given ear to the voice of my weeping.
Psalms 6:9 The Lord has given ear to my request; the Lord has let my prayer come before him.
Psalms 6:10 Let all those who are against me be shamed and deeply troubled; let them be turned back and suddenly put to shame.
Psalms 7:1  O Lord my God, I put my faith in you; take me out of the hands of him who is cruel to me, and make me free;
Psalms 7:2 So that he may not come rushing on my soul like a lion, wounding it, while there is no one to be my saviour.
Psalms 7:3 O Lord my God, if I have done this; if my hands have done any wrong;
Psalms 7:4 If I have given back evil to him who did evil to me, or have taken anything from him who was against me without cause;
Psalms 7:5 Let my hater go after my soul and take it; let my life be crushed to the earth, and my honour into the dust. (Selah.)
Psalms 7:6 Come up, Lord, in your wrath; be lifted up against my haters; be awake, my God, give orders for the judging.
Psalms 7:7 The meeting of the nations will be round you; take your seat, then, over them, on high.
Psalms 7:8 The Lord will be judge of the peoples; give a decision for me, O Lord, because of my righteousness, and let my virtue have its reward.
Psalms 7:9 O let the evil of the evil-doer come to an end, but give strength to the upright: for men's minds and hearts are tested by the God of righteousness.
Psalms 7:10 God, who is the saviour of the upright in heart, is my breastplate.
Psalms 7:11 God is the judge of the upright, and is angry with the evil-doers every day.
Psalms 7:12 If a man is not turned from his evil, he will make his sword sharp; his bow is bent and ready.
Psalms 7:13 He has made ready for him the instruments of death; he makes his arrows flames of fire.
Psalms 7:14 That man is a worker of evil; the seed of wrongdoing has given birth to deceit.
Psalms 7:15 He has made a hole deep in the earth, and is falling into the hole which he has made
Psalms 7:16 His wrongdoing will come back to him, and his violent behaviour will come down on his head.
Psalms 7:17 I will give praise to the Lord for his righteousness; I will make a song to the name of the Lord Most High.
Psalms 8:1  O Lord, our Lord, whose glory is higher than the heavens, how noble is your name in all the earth!
Psalms 8:2 You have made clear your strength even out of the mouths of babies at the breast, because of those who are against you; so that you may put to shame the cruel and violent man.
Psalms 8:3 When I see your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have put in their places;
Psalms 8:4 What is man, that you keep him in mind? the son of man, that you take him into account?
Psalms 8:5 For you have made him only a little lower than the gods, crowning him with glory and honour.
Psalms 8:6 You have made him ruler over the works of your hands; you have put all things under his feet;
Psalms 8:7 All sheep and oxen, and all the beasts of the field;
Psalms 8:8 The birds of the air and the fish of the sea, and whatever goes through the deep waters of the seas.
Psalms 8:9 O Lord, our Lord, how noble is your name in all the earth!
Psalms 9:1  I will give you praise, O Lord, with all my heart; I will make clear all the wonder of your works.
Psalms 9:2 I will be glad and have delight in you: I will make a song of praise to your name, O Most High.
Psalms 9:3 When my haters are turned back, they will be broken and overcome before you.
Psalms 9:4 For you gave approval to my right and my cause; you were seated in your high place judging in righteousness.
Psalms 9:5 You have said sharp words to the nations, you have sent destruction on the sinners, you have put an end to their name for ever and ever.
Psalms 9:6 You have given their towns to destruction; the memory of them has gone; they have become waste for ever.
Psalms 9:7 But the Lord is King for ever: he has made ready his high seat for judging.
Psalms 9:8 And he will be the judge of the world in righteousness, giving true decisions for the peoples.
Psalms 9:9 The Lord will be a high tower for those who are crushed down, a high tower in times of trouble;
Psalms 9:10 And those who have knowledge of your name will put their faith in you; because you, Lord, have ever given your help to those who were waiting for you.
Psalms 9:11 Make songs of praise to the Lord, whose house is in Zion: make his doings clear to the people.
Psalms 9:12 When he makes search for blood, he has them in his memory: he is not without thought for the cry of the poor.
Psalms 9:13 Have mercy on me, O Lord, and see how I am troubled by my haters; let me be lifted up from the doors of death;
Psalms 9:14 So that I may make clear all your praise in the house of the daughter of Zion: I will be glad because of your salvation.
Psalms 9:15 The nations have gone down into the hole which they made: in their secret net is their foot taken.
Psalms 9:16 The Lord has given knowledge of himself through his judging: the evil-doer is taken in the net which his hands had made. (Higgaion. Selah.)
Psalms 9:17 The sinners and all the nations who have no memory of God will be turned into the underworld.
Psalms 9:18 For the poor will not be without help; the hopes of those in need will not be crushed for ever.
Psalms 9:19 Up! O Lord; let not man overcome you: let the nations be judged before you.
Psalms 9:20 Put them in fear, O Lord, so that the nations may see that they are only men. (Selah.)
Psalms 10:1 Why do you keep far away, O Lord? why are you not to be seen in times of trouble?
Psalms 10:2 The evil-doer in his pride is cruel to the poor; let him be taken by the tricks of his invention.
Psalms 10:3 For the evil-doer is lifted up because of the purpose of his heart, and he whose mind is fixed on wealth is turned away from the Lord, saying evil against him.
Psalms 10:4 The evil-doer in his pride says, God will not make a search. All his thoughts are, There is no God.
Psalms 10:5 His ways are ever fixed; your decisions are higher than he may see: as for his haters, they are as nothing to him.
Psalms 10:6 He has said in his heart, I will not be moved: through all generations I will never be in trouble.
Psalms 10:7 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and false words: under his tongue are evil purposes and dark thoughts.
Psalms 10:8 He is waiting in the dark places of the towns: in the secret places he puts to death those who have done no wrong: his eyes are secretly turned against the poor.
Psalms 10:9 He keeps himself in a secret place like a lion in his hole, waiting to put his hands on the poor man, and pulling him into his net.
Psalms 10:10 The upright are crushed and made low, and the feeble are overcome by his strong ones.
Psalms 10:11 He says in his heart, God has no memory of me: his face is turned away; he will never see it.
Psalms 10:12 Up! O Lord; let your hand be lifted: give thought to the poor.
Psalms 10:13 Why has the evil-doer a low opinion of God, saying in his heart, You will not make search for it?
Psalms 10:14 You have seen it; for your eyes are on sorrow and grief, to take it into your hand: the poor man puts his faith in you; you have been the helper of the child who has no father.
Psalms 10:15 Let the arm of the sinner and the evil-doer be broken; go on searching for his sin till there is no more.
Psalms 10:16 The Lord is King for ever and ever; the nations are gone from his land.
Psalms 10:17 Lord, you have given ear to the prayer of the poor: you will make strong their hearts, you will give them a hearing:
Psalms 10:18 To give decision for the child without a father and for the broken-hearted, so that the man of the earth may no longer be feared.
Song of Solomon 1:1 The song of Songs, which is Solomon's.
Song of Solomon 1:2 Let him give me the kisses of his mouth: for his love is better than wine.
Song of Solomon 1:3 Sweet is the smell of your perfumes; your name is as perfume running out; so the young girls give you their love.
Song of Solomon 1:4 Take me to you, and we will go after you: the king has taken me into his house. We will be glad and full of joy in you, we will give more thought to your love than to wine: rightly are they your lovers.
Song of Solomon 1:5 I am dark, but fair of form, O daughters of Jerusalem, as the tents of Kedar, as the curtains of Solomon.
Song of Solomon 1:6 Let not your eyes be turned on me, because I am dark, because I was looked on by the sun; my mother's children were angry with me; they made me the keeper of the vine-gardens; but my vine-garden I have not kept.
Song of Solomon 1:7 Say, O love of my soul, where you give food to your flock, and where you make them take their rest in the heat of the day; why have I to be as one wandering by the flocks of your friends?
Song of Solomon 1:8 If you have not knowledge, O most beautiful among women, go on your way in the footsteps of the flock, and give your young goats food by the tents of the keepers.
Song of Solomon 1:9 I have made a comparison of you, O my love, to a horse in Pharaoh's carriages.
Malachi 1:1 The word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi.
Malachi 1:2 You have been loved by me, says the Lord. But you say, Where was your love for us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? says the Lord: but Jacob was loved by me,
Malachi 1:3 And Esau was hated, and I sent destruction on his mountains, and gave his heritage to the beasts of the waste land.
Malachi 1:4 Though Edom says, We are crushed down but we will come back, building up the waste places; this is what the Lord of armies has said: They may put up buildings, but I will have them pulled down; and they will be named The land of evil-doing, and The people against whom the Lord keeps his wrath for ever.
Malachi 1:5 And your eyes will see it; and you will say, The Lord is great even outside the limits of Israel.
Malachi 1:6 A son gives honour to his father, and a servant has fear of his master: if then I am a father, where is my honour? and if I am a master, where is the fear of me? says the Lord of armies to you, O priests, who give no value to my name. And you say, How have we not given value to your name?
Malachi 1:7 You put unclean bread on my altar. And you say, How have we made it unclean? By your saying, The table of the Lord is of no value.
Malachi 1:8 And when you give what is blind for an offering, it is no evil! and when you give what is damaged and ill, it is no evil! Give it now to your ruler; will he be pleased with you, or will you have his approval? says the Lord of armies.
Malachi 1:9 And now, make request for the grace of God so that he may have mercy on us: this has been your doing: will he give his approval to any of you? says the Lord of armies.
Malachi 1:10 If only there was one among you who would see that the doors were shut, so that you might not put a light to the fire on my altar for nothing! I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of armies, and I will not take an offering from your hands.
Malachi 1:11 For, from the coming up of the sun till its going down, my name is great among the Gentiles; and in every place the smell of burning flesh is offered to my name, and a clean offering: for my name is great among the Gentiles, says the Lord of armies.
Malachi 1:12 But you make it unholy by saying, The Lord's table has become unclean, and his food is of no value.
Malachi 1:13 And you say, See, what a weariness it is! and you let out your breath at it, says the Lord of armies; and you have given what has been cut about by beasts, and what is damaged in its feet and ill; this is the offering you give: will this be pleasing to me from your hands? says the Lord.
Malachi 1:14 A curse on the false man who has a male in his flock, and takes his oath, and gives to the Lord a damaged thing: for I am a great King, says the Lord of armies, and my name is to be feared among the Gentiles.
Malachi 2:1 And now, O you priests, this order is for you.
Matthew 1:1 The book of the generations of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
Matthew 1:2 The son of Abraham was Isaac; and the son of Isaac was Jacob; and the sons of Jacob were Judah and his brothers;
Matthew 1:3 And the sons of Judah were Perez and Zerah by Tamar; and the son of Perez was Hezron; and the son of Hezron was Ram;
Matthew 1:4 And the son of Ram was Amminadab; and the son of Amminadab was Nahshon; and the son of Nahshon was Salmon;
Matthew 1:5 And the son of Salmon by Rahab was Boaz; and the son of Boaz by Ruth was Obed; and the son of Obed was Jesse;
Matthew 1:6 And the son of Jesse was David the king; and the son of David was Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah;
Matthew 1:7 And the son of Solomon was Rehoboam; and the son of Rehoboam was Abijah; and the son of Abijah was Asa;
Matthew 1:8 And the son of Asa was Jehoshaphat; and the son of Jehoshaphat was Joram; and the son of Joram was Uzziah;
Matthew 1:9 And the son of Uzziah was Jotham; and the son of Jotham was Ahaz; and the son of Ahaz was Hezekiah;
