ASV

Genesis 1:1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. 
Genesis 1:2 And the earth was waste and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep: and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. 
Genesis 1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light. 
Genesis 1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness. 
Genesis 1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, one day. 
Genesis 1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. 
Genesis 1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so. 
Genesis 1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, a second day. 
Genesis 1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so. 
Numbers 1:1 And Jehovah spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying, 
Numbers 1:2 Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, every male, by their polls; 
Numbers 1:3 from twenty years old and upward, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel, thou and Aaron shall number them by their hosts. 
Numbers 1:4 And with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one head of his fathers’ house. 
Numbers 1:5 And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you. Of Reuben: Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
Numbers 1:6 Of Simeon: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
Numbers 1:7 Of Judah: Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
Numbers 1:8 Of Issachar: Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
Numbers 2:1 And Jehovah spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
Numbers 2:2 The children of Israel shall encamp every man by his own standard, with the ensigns of their fathers’ houses: over against the tent of meeting shall they encamp round about. 
Numbers 2:3 And those that encamp on the east side toward the sunrising shall be they of the standard of the camp of Judah, according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Judah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
Numbers 2:4 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred. 
Numbers 2:5 And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Issachar: and the prince of the children of Issachar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
Numbers 2:6 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred. 
Numbers 2:7 And the tribe of Zebulun: and the prince of the children of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon. 
Numbers 3:1 Now these are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that Jehovah spake with Moses in mount Sinai. 
Numbers 3:2 And these are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the first-born, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
Numbers 3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests that were anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest’s office. 
Numbers 3:4 And Nadab and Abihu died before Jehovah, when they offered strange fire before Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children; and Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest’s office in the presence of Aaron their father. 
Numbers 3:5 And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
Numbers 3:6 Bring the tribe of Levi near, and set them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister unto him. 
Numbers 3:7 And they shall keep his charge, and the charge of the whole congregation before the tent of meeting, to do the service of the tabernacle. 
Numbers 3:8 And they shall keep all the furniture of the tent of meeting, and the charge of the children of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle. 
Numbers 3:9 And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aaron and to his sons: they are wholly given unto him on the behalf of the children of Israel. 
Numbers 3:10 And thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall keep their priesthood: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. 
Numbers 3:11 And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
1 Samuel 1:1 Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite: 
1 Samuel 1:2 and he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children. 
1 Samuel 1:3 And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests unto Jehovah, were there. 
1 Samuel 1:4 And when the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions: 
1 Samuel 1:5 but unto Hannah he gave a double portion; for he loved Hannah, but Jehovah had shut up her womb. 
1 Samuel 1:6 And her rival provoked her sore, to make her fret, because Jehovah had shut up her womb. 
1 Samuel 1:7 And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat. 
1 Samuel 1:8 And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons? 
1 Samuel 1:9 So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest was sitting upon his seat by the door-post of the temple of Jehovah. 
1 Samuel 1:10 And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore. 
2 Samuel 1:1 And it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Ziklag; 
2 Samuel 1:2 it came to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head: and so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and did obeisance. 
2 Samuel 1:3 And David said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. 
2 Samuel 1:4 And David said unto him, How went the matter? I pray thee, tell me. And he answered, The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also. 
2 Samuel 1:5 And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead? 
2 Samuel 1:6 And the young man that told him said, As I happened by chance upon mount Gilboa, behold, Saul was leaning upon his spear; and, lo, the chariots and the horsemen followed hard after him. 
2 Samuel 1:7 And when he looked behind him, he saw me, and called unto me. And I answered, Here am I. 
2 Samuel 1:8 And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I answered him, I am an Amalekite. 
Psalms 1:1 Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the wicked, Nor standeth in the way of sinners, Nor sitteth in the seat of scoffers: 
Psalms 1:2 But his delight is in the law of Jehovah; And on his law doth he meditate day and night. 
Psalms 1:3 And he shall be like a tree planted by the streams of water, That bringeth forth its fruit in its season, Whose leaf also doth not wither; And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. 
Psalms 1:4 The wicked are not so, But are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. 
Psalms 1:5 Therefore the wicked shall not stand in the judgment, Nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. 
Psalms 1:6 For Jehovah knoweth the way of the righteous; But the way of the wicked shall perish. 
Psalms 2:1 Why do the nations rage, And the peoples meditate a vain thing? 
Psalms 2:2 The kings of the earth set themselves, And the rulers take counsel together, Against Jehovah, and against his anointed, saying, 
Psalms 2:3 Let us break their bonds asunder, And cast away their cords from us. 
Psalms 2:4 He that sitteth in the heavens will laugh: The Lord will have them in derision. 
Psalms 2:5 Then will he speak unto them in his wrath, And vex them in his sore displeasure: 
Psalms 2:6   Yet I have set my king  Upon my holy hill of Zion. 
Psalms 2:7  I will tell of the decree: Jehovah said unto me, Thou art my son; This day have I begotten thee. 
Psalms 2:8 Ask of me, and I will givetheethe nations for thine inheritance, And the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. 
Psalms 2:9 Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel. 
Psalms 2:10  Now therefore be wise, O ye kings: Be instructed, ye judges of the earth. 
Psalms 2:11 Serve Jehovah with fear, And rejoice with trembling. 
Psalms 2:12 Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and ye perish in the way, For his wrath will soon be kindled. Blessed are all they that take refuge in him.   
Psalms 3:1   Jehovah, how are mine adversaries increased! Many are they that rise up against me. 
Psalms 3:2 Many there are that say of my soul, There is no help for him in God. [Selah
Psalms 3:3 But thou, O Jehovah, art a shield about me; My glory, and the lifter up of my head. 
Psalms 3:4 I cry unto Jehovah with my voice, And he answereth me out of his holy hill. [Selah
Psalms 3:5 I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for Jehovah sustaineth me. 
Psalms 3:6 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of the people That have set themselves against me round about. 
Psalms 3:7 Arise, O Jehovah; save me, O my God: For thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek bone; Thou hast broken the teeth of the wicked. 
Psalms 3:8 Salvation belongeth unto Jehovah: Thy blessing be upon thy people. [Selah   
Psalms 4:1   Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness; Thou hast set me at large when I was in distress: Have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer. 
Psalms 4:2 O ye sons of men, how long shall my glory be turned into dishonor? How longwill ye love vanity, and seek after falsehood? [Selah
Psalms 4:3 But know that Jehovah hath set apart for himself him that is godly: Jehovah will hear when I call unto him. 
Psalms 4:4 Stand in awe, and sin not: Commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. [Selah
Psalms 4:5 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, And put your trust in Jehovah. 
Psalms 4:6 Many there are that say, Who will show us any good? Jehovah, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us. 
Psalms 4:7 Thou hast put gladness in my heart, More thanthey havewhen their grain and their new wine are increased. 
Psalms 4:8 In peace will I both lay me down and sleep; For thou, Jehovah, alone makest me dwell in safety.   
Psalms 5:1   Give ear to my words, O Jehovah, Consider my meditation. 
Psalms 5:2 Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God; For unto thee do I pray. 
Psalms 5:3 O Jehovah, in the morning shalt thou hear my voice; In the morning will I order my prayer unto thee, and will keep watch. 
Psalms 5:4 For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: Evil shall not sojourn with thee. 
Psalms 5:5 The arrogant shall not stand in thy sight: Thou hatest all workers of iniquity. 
Psalms 5:6 Thou wilt destroy them that speak lies: Jehovah abhorreth the blood-thirsty and deceitful man. 
Psalms 5:7 But as for me, in the abundance of thy lovingkindness will I come into thy house: In thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple. 
Psalms 5:8 Lead me, O Jehovah, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; Make thy way straight before my face. 
Psalms 5:9 For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; Their inward part is very wickedness; Their throat is an open sepulchre; They flatter with their tongue. 
Psalms 5:10 Hold them guilty, O God; Let them fall by their own counsels; Thrust them out in the multitude of their transgressions; For they have rebelled against thee. 
Psalms 5:11 But let all those that take refuge in thee rejoice, Let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: Let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. 
Psalms 5:12 For thou wilt bless the righteous; O Jehovah, thou wilt compass him with favor as with a shield.   
Psalms 6:1   O Jehovah, rebuke me not in thine anger, Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. 
Psalms 6:2 Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah; for I am withered away: O Jehovah, heal me; for my bones are troubled. 
Psalms 6:3 My soul also is sore troubled: And thou, O Jehovah, how long? 
Psalms 6:4 Return, O Jehovah, deliver my soul: Save me for thy lovingkindness’ sake. 
Psalms 6:5 For in death there is no remembrance of thee: In Sheol who shall give thee thanks? 
Psalms 6:6 I am weary with my groaning; Every night make I my bed to swim; I water my couch with my tears. 
Psalms 6:7 Mine eye wasteth away because of grief; It waxeth old because of all mine adversaries. 
Psalms 6:8 Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; For Jehovah hath heard the voice of my weeping. 
Psalms 6:9 Jehovah hath heard my supplication; Jehovah will receive my prayer. 
Psalms 6:10 All mine enemies shall be put to shame and sore troubled: They shall turn back, they shall be put to shame suddenly.   
Psalms 7:1   O Jehovah my God, in thee do I take refuge: Save me from all them that pursue me, and deliver me, 
Psalms 7:2 Lest they tear my soul like a lion, Rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver. 
Psalms 7:3 O Jehovah my God, if I have done this; If there be iniquity in my hands; 
Psalms 7:4 If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me (Yea, I have delivered him that without cause was mine adversary); 
Psalms 7:5 Let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it; Yea, let him tread my life down to the earth, And lay my glory in the dust. [Selah
Psalms 7:6 Arise, O Jehovah, in thine anger; Lift up thyself against the rage of mine adversaries, And awake for me; thou hast commanded judgment. 
Psalms 7:7 And let the congregation of the peoples compass thee about; And over them return thou on high. 
Psalms 7:8 Jehovah ministereth judgment to the peoples: Judge me, O Jehovah, according to my righteousness, and to mine integrity that is in me. 
Psalms 7:9 Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish thou the righteous: For the righteous God trieth the minds and hearts. 
Psalms 7:10 My shield is with God, Who saveth the upright in heart. 
Psalms 7:11 God is a righteous judge, Yea, a God that hath indignation every day. 
Psalms 7:12 If a man turn not, he will whet his sword; He hath bent his bow, and made it ready; 
Psalms 7:13 He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; He maketh his arrows fiery shafts. 
Psalms 7:14 Behold, he travaileth with iniquity; Yea, he hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood. 
Psalms 7:15 He hath made a pit, and digged it, And is fallen into the ditch which he made. 
Psalms 7:16 His mischief shall return upon his own head, And his violence shall come down upon his own pate. 
Psalms 7:17 I will give thanks unto Jehovah according to his righteousness, And will sing praise to the name of Jehovah Most High.   
Psalms 8:1   O Jehovah, our Lord, How excellent is thy name in all the earth, Who hast set thy glory upon the heavens! 
Psalms 8:2 Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou established strength, Because of thine adversaries, That thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. 
Psalms 8:3 When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, The moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained; 
Psalms 8:4 What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him? 
Psalms 8:5 For thou hast made him but little lower than God, And crownest him with glory and honor. 
Psalms 8:6 Thou makest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; Thou hast put all things under his feet: 
Psalms 8:7 All sheep and oxen, Yea, and the beasts of the field, 
Psalms 8:8 The birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, Whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. 
Psalms 8:9 O Jehovah, our Lord, How excellent is thy name in all the earth!   
Psalms 9:1   I will give thanks unto Jehovah with my whole heart; I will show forth all thy marvellous works. 
Psalms 9:2 I will be glad and exult in thee; I will sing praise to thy name, O thou Most High. 
Psalms 9:3 When mine enemies turn back, They stumble and perish at thy presence. 
Psalms 9:4 For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; Thou sittest in the throne judging righteously. 
Psalms 9:5 Thou hast rebuked the nations, thou hast destroyed the wicked; Thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever. 
Psalms 9:6 The enemy are come to an end, they are desolate for ever; And the cities which thou hast overthrown, The very remembrance of them is perished. 
Psalms 9:7 But Jehovah sitteth as king for ever: He hath prepared his throne for judgment; 
Psalms 9:8 And he will judge the world in righteousness, He will minister judgment to the peoples in uprightness. 
Psalms 9:9 Jehovah also will be a high tower for the oppressed, A high tower in times of trouble; 
Psalms 9:10 And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee; For thou, Jehovah, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. 
Psalms 9:11 Sing praises to Jehovah, who dwelleth in Zion: Declare among the people his doings. 
Psalms 9:12 For he that maketh inquisition for blood remembereth them; He forgetteth not the cry of the poor. 
Psalms 9:13 Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah; Behold my affliction which I suffer of them that hate me, Thou that liftest me up from the gates of death; 
Psalms 9:14 That I may show forth all thy praise. In the gates of the daughter of Zion I will rejoice in thy salvation. 
Psalms 9:15 The nations are sunk down in the pit that they made: In the net which they hid is their own foot taken. 
Psalms 9:16 Jehovah hath made himself known, he hath executed judgment: The wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. [Higgaion. Selah
Psalms 9:17 The wicked shall be turned back unto Sheol, Even all the nations that forget God. 
Psalms 9:18 For the needy shall not alway be forgotten, Nor the expectation of the poor perish for ever. 
Psalms 9:19 Arise, O Jehovah; let not man prevail: Let the nations be judged in thy sight. 
Psalms 9:20 Put them in fear, O Jehovah: Let the nations know themselves to be but men. [Selah   
Psalms 10:1 Why standest thou afar off, O Jehovah? Why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble? 
Psalms 10:2 In the pride of the wicked the poor is hotly pursued; Let them be taken in the devices that they have conceived. 
Psalms 10:3 For the wicked boasteth of his heart’s desire, And the covetous renounceth, yea, contemneth Jehovah. 
Psalms 10:4 The wicked, in the pride of his countenance, saith, He will not requireit. All his thoughts are, There is no God. 
Psalms 10:5 His ways are firm at all times; Thy judgments are far above out of his sight: As for all his adversaries, he puffeth at them. 
Psalms 10:6 He saith in his heart, I shall not be moved; To all generations I shall not be in adversity. 
Psalms 10:7 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression: Under his tongue is mischief and iniquity. 
Psalms 10:8 He sitteth in the lurking-places of the villages; In the secret places doth he murder the innocent; His eyes are privily set against the helpless. 
Psalms 10:9 He lurketh in secret as a lion in his covert; He lieth in wait to catch the poor: He doth catch the poor, when he draweth him in his net. 
Psalms 10:10 He croucheth, he boweth down, And the helpless fall by his strong ones. 
Psalms 10:11 He saith in his heart: God hath forgotten; He hideth his face, he will never see it. 
Psalms 10:12 Arise, O Jehovah; O God, lift up thy hand: Forget not the poor. 
Psalms 10:13 Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God, And say in his heart, Thou wilt not requireit? 
Psalms 10:14 Thou hast seenit; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite it with thy hand: The helpless committeth himself unto thee; Thou hast been the helper of the fatherless. 
Psalms 10:15 Break thou the arm of the wicked; And as for the evil man, seek out his wickedness till thou find none. 
Psalms 10:16 Jehovah is King for ever and ever: The nations are perished out of his land. 
Psalms 10:17 Jehovah, thou hast heard the desire of the meek: Thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear; 
Psalms 10:18 To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, That man who is of the earth may be terrible no more.   
Song of Solomon 1:1 The Song of songs, which is Solomon’s.  
Song of Solomon 1:2  Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth; For thy love is better than wine. 
Song of Solomon 1:3 Thine oils have a goodly fragrance; Thy name is as oil poured forth; Therefore do the virgins love thee. 
Song of Solomon 1:4 Draw me; we will run after thee: The king hath brought me into his chambers; We will be glad and rejoice in thee; We will make mention of thy love more than of wine: Rightly do they love thee. 
Song of Solomon 1:5  I am black, but comely, Oh ye daughters of Jerusalem, As the tents of Kedar, As the curtains of Solomon. 
Song of Solomon 1:6 Look not upon me, because I am swarthy, Because the sun hath scorched me. My mother’s sons were incensed against me; They made me keeper of the vineyards; But mine own vineyard have I not kept. 
Song of Solomon 1:7 Tell me, O thou whom my soul loveth, Where thou feedest thy flock, Where thou makest it to rest at noon: For why should I be as one that is veiled Beside the flocks of thy companions? 
Song of Solomon 1:8  If thou know not, O thou fairest among women, Go thy way forth by the footsteps of the flock, And feed thy kids beside the shepherds’ tents. 
Song of Solomon 1:9  I have compared thee, O my love, To a steed in Pharaoh’s chariots. 
Malachi 1:1 The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel by Malachi. 
Malachi 1:2 I have loved you, saith Jehovah. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob’s brother? saith Jehovah: yet I loved Jacob; 
Malachi 1:3 but Esau I hated, and made his mountains a desolation, and gave his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness. 
Malachi 1:4 Whereas Edom saith, We are beaten down, but we will return and build the waste places; thus saith Jehovah of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; and men shall call them The border of wickedness, and The people against whom Jehovah hath indignation for ever. 
Malachi 1:5 And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, Jehovah be magnified beyond the border of Israel. 
Malachi 1:6 A son honoreth his father, and a servant his master: if then I am a father, where is mine honor? and if I am a master, where is my fear? saith Jehovah of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? 
Malachi 1:7 Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar. And ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of Jehovah is contemptible. 
Malachi 1:8 And when ye offer the blind for sacrifice, it is no evil! and when ye offer the lame and sick, it is no evil! Present it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee? or will he accept thy person? saith Jehovah of hosts. 
Malachi 1:9 And now, I pray you, entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious unto us: this hath been by your means: will he accept any of your persons? saith Jehovah of hosts. 
Malachi 1:10 Oh that there were one among you that would shut the doors, that ye might not kindle fire on mine altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, saith Jehovah of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand. 
Malachi 1:11 For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name shall be great among the Gentiles, saith Jehovah of hosts. 
Malachi 1:12 But ye profane it, in that ye say, The table of Jehovah is polluted, and the fruit thereof, even its food, is contemptible. 
Malachi 1:13 Ye say also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and ye have snuffed at it, saith Jehovah of hosts; and ye have brought that which was taken by violence, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye bring the offering: should I accept this at your hand? saith Jehovah. 
Malachi 1:14 But cursed be the deceiver, who hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a blemished thing; for I am a great King, saith Jehovah of hosts, and my name is terrible among the Gentiles.  
Malachi 2:1 And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you. 
Matthew 1:1 The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. 
Matthew 1:2 Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat Judah and his brethren; 
Matthew 1:3 and Judah begat Perez and Zerah of Tamar; and Perez begat Hezron; and Hezron begat Ram; 
Matthew 1:4 and Ram begat Amminadab; and Amminadab begat Nahshon; and Nahshon begat Salmon; 
Matthew 1:5 and Salmon begat Boaz of Rahab; and Boaz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse; 
Matthew 1:6 and Jesse begat David the king. And David begat Solomon of her that had been the wife of Uriah; 
Matthew 1:7 and Solomon begat Rehoboam; and Rehoboam begat Abijah; and Abijah begat Asa; 
Matthew 1:8 and Asa begat Jehoshaphat; and Jehoshaphat begat Joram; and Joram begat Uzziah; 
Matthew 1:9 and Uzziah begat Jotham; and Jotham begat Ahaz; and Ahaz begat Hezekiah; 
