ASV

Genesis 1:1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. 
Genesis 1:2 And the earth was waste and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep: and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. 
Genesis 1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light. 
Genesis 1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness. 
Genesis 1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, one day. 
Genesis 1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. 
Genesis 1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so. 
Genesis 1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, a second day. 
Genesis 1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so. 
Numbers 1:1 And Jehovah spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying, 
Numbers 1:2 Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, every male, by their polls; 
Numbers 1:3 from twenty years old and upward, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel, thou and Aaron shall number them by their hosts. 
Numbers 1:4 And with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one head of his fathers’ house. 
Numbers 1:5 And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you. Of Reuben: Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
Numbers 1:6 Of Simeon: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
Numbers 1:7 Of Judah: Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
Numbers 1:8 Of Issachar: Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
Numbers 2:1 And Jehovah spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
Numbers 2:2 The children of Israel shall encamp every man by his own standard, with the ensigns of their fathers’ houses: over against the tent of meeting shall they encamp round about. 
Numbers 2:3 And those that encamp on the east side toward the sunrising shall be they of the standard of the camp of Judah, according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Judah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
Numbers 2:4 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred. 
Numbers 2:5 And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Issachar: and the prince of the children of Issachar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
Numbers 2:6 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred. 
Numbers 2:7 And the tribe of Zebulun: and the prince of the children of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon. 
Numbers 3:1 Now these are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that Jehovah spake with Moses in mount Sinai. 
Numbers 3:2 And these are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the first-born, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
Numbers 3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests that were anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest’s office. 
Numbers 3:4 And Nadab and Abihu died before Jehovah, when they offered strange fire before Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children; and Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest’s office in the presence of Aaron their father. 
Numbers 3:5 And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
Numbers 3:6 Bring the tribe of Levi near, and set them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister unto him. 
Numbers 3:7 And they shall keep his charge, and the charge of the whole congregation before the tent of meeting, to do the service of the tabernacle. 
Numbers 3:8 And they shall keep all the furniture of the tent of meeting, and the charge of the children of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle. 
Numbers 3:9 And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aaron and to his sons: they are wholly given unto him on the behalf of the children of Israel. 
Numbers 3:10 And thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall keep their priesthood: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. 
Numbers 3:11 And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, 
1 Samuel 1:1 Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite: 
1 Samuel 1:2 and he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children. 
1 Samuel 1:3 And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests unto Jehovah, were there. 
1 Samuel 1:4 And when the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions: 
1 Samuel 1:5 but unto Hannah he gave a double portion; for he loved Hannah, but Jehovah had shut up her womb. 
1 Samuel 1:6 And her rival provoked her sore, to make her fret, because Jehovah had shut up her womb. 
1 Samuel 1:7 And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat. 
1 Samuel 1:8 And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons? 
1 Samuel 1:9 So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest was sitting upon his seat by the door-post of the temple of Jehovah. 
1 Samuel 1:10 And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore. 
2 Samuel 1:1 And it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Ziklag; 
2 Samuel 1:2 it came to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head: and so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and did obeisance. 
2 Samuel 1:3 And David said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. 
2 Samuel 1:4 And David said unto him, How went the matter? I pray thee, tell me. And he answered, The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also. 
2 Samuel 1:5 And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead? 
2 Samuel 1:6 And the young man that told him said, As I happened by chance upon mount Gilboa, behold, Saul was leaning upon his spear; and, lo, the chariots and the horsemen followed hard after him. 
2 Samuel 1:7 And when he looked behind him, he saw me, and called unto me. And I answered, Here am I. 
2 Samuel 1:8 And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I answered him, I am an Amalekite. 
Psalms 1:1 Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the wicked, Nor standeth in the way of sinners, Nor sitteth in the seat of scoffers: 
Psalms 1:2 But his delight is in the law of Jehovah; And on his law doth he meditate day and night. 
Psalms 1:3 And he shall be like a tree planted by the streams of water, That bringeth forth its fruit in its season, Whose leaf also doth not wither; And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. 
Psalms 1:4 The wicked are not so, But are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. 
Psalms 1:5 Therefore the wicked shall not stand in the judgment, Nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. 
Psalms 1:6 For Jehovah knoweth the way of the righteous; But the way of the wicked shall perish. 
Psalms 2:1 Why do the nations rage, And the peoples meditate a vain thing? 
Psalms 2:2 The kings of the earth set themselves, And the rulers take counsel together, Against Jehovah, and against his anointed, saying, 
Psalms 2:3 Let us break their bonds asunder, And cast away their cords from us. 
Psalms 2:4 He that sitteth in the heavens will laugh: The Lord will have them in derision. 
Psalms 2:5 Then will he speak unto them in his wrath, And vex them in his sore displeasure: 
Psalms 2:6   Yet I have set my king  Upon my holy hill of Zion. 
Psalms 2:7  I will tell of the decree: Jehovah said unto me, Thou art my son; This day have I begotten thee. 
Psalms 2:8 Ask of me, and I will givetheethe nations for thine inheritance, And the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. 
Psalms 2:9 Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel. 
Psalms 2:10  Now therefore be wise, O ye kings: Be instructed, ye judges of the earth. 
Psalms 2:11 Serve Jehovah with fear, And rejoice with trembling. 
Psalms 2:12 Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and ye perish in the way, For his wrath will soon be kindled. Blessed are all they that take refuge in him.   
Psalms 3:1   Jehovah, how are mine adversaries increased! Many are they that rise up against me. 
Psalms 3:2 Many there are that say of my soul, There is no help for him in God. [Selah
Psalms 3:3 But thou, O Jehovah, art a shield about me; My glory, and the lifter up of my head. 
Psalms 3:4 I cry unto Jehovah with my voice, And he answereth me out of his holy hill. [Selah
Psalms 3:5 I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for Jehovah sustaineth me. 
Psalms 3:6 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of the people That have set themselves against me round about. 
Psalms 3:7 Arise, O Jehovah; save me, O my God: For thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek bone; Thou hast broken the teeth of the wicked. 
Psalms 3:8 Salvation belongeth unto Jehovah: Thy blessing be upon thy people. [Selah   
Psalms 4:1   Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness; Thou hast set me at large when I was in distress: Have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer. 
Psalms 4:2 O ye sons of men, how long shall my glory be turned into dishonor? How longwill ye love vanity, and seek after falsehood? [Selah
Psalms 4:3 But know that Jehovah hath set apart for himself him that is godly: Jehovah will hear when I call unto him. 
Psalms 4:4 Stand in awe, and sin not: Commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. [Selah
Psalms 4:5 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, And put your trust in Jehovah. 
Psalms 4:6 Many there are that say, Who will show us any good? Jehovah, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us. 
Psalms 4:7 Thou hast put gladness in my heart, More thanthey havewhen their grain and their new wine are increased. 
Psalms 4:8 In peace will I both lay me down and sleep; For thou, Jehovah, alone makest me dwell in safety.   
Psalms 5:1   Give ear to my words, O Jehovah, Consider my meditation. 
Psalms 5:2 Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God; For unto thee do I pray. 
Psalms 5:3 O Jehovah, in the morning shalt thou hear my voice; In the morning will I order my prayer unto thee, and will keep watch. 
Psalms 5:4 For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: Evil shall not sojourn with thee. 
Psalms 5:5 The arrogant shall not stand in thy sight: Thou hatest all workers of iniquity. 
Psalms 5:6 Thou wilt destroy them that speak lies: Jehovah abhorreth the blood-thirsty and deceitful man. 
Psalms 5:7 But as for me, in the abundance of thy lovingkindness will I come into thy house: In thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple. 
Psalms 5:8 Lead me, O Jehovah, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; Make thy way straight before my face. 
Psalms 5:9 For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; Their inward part is very wickedness; Their throat is an open sepulchre; They flatter with their tongue. 
Psalms 5:10 Hold them guilty, O God; Let them fall by their own counsels; Thrust them out in the multitude of their transgressions; For they have rebelled against thee. 
Psalms 5:11 But let all those that take refuge in thee rejoice, Let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: Let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. 
Psalms 5:12 For thou wilt bless the righteous; O Jehovah, thou wilt compass him with favor as with a shield.   
Psalms 6:1   O Jehovah, rebuke me not in thine anger, Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. 
Psalms 6:2 Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah; for I am withered away: O Jehovah, heal me; for my bones are troubled. 
Psalms 6:3 My soul also is sore troubled: And thou, O Jehovah, how long? 
Psalms 6:4 Return, O Jehovah, deliver my soul: Save me for thy lovingkindness’ sake. 
Psalms 6:5 For in death there is no remembrance of thee: In Sheol who shall give thee thanks? 
Psalms 6:6 I am weary with my groaning; Every night make I my bed to swim; I water my couch with my tears. 
Psalms 6:7 Mine eye wasteth away because of grief; It waxeth old because of all mine adversaries. 
Psalms 6:8 Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; For Jehovah hath heard the voice of my weeping. 
Psalms 6:9 Jehovah hath heard my supplication; Jehovah will receive my prayer. 
Psalms 6:10 All mine enemies shall be put to shame and sore troubled: They shall turn back, they shall be put to shame suddenly.   
Psalms 7:1   O Jehovah my God, in thee do I take refuge: Save me from all them that pursue me, and deliver me, 
Psalms 7:2 Lest they tear my soul like a lion, Rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver. 
Psalms 7:3 O Jehovah my God, if I have done this; If there be iniquity in my hands; 
Psalms 7:4 If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me (Yea, I have delivered him that without cause was mine adversary); 
Psalms 7:5 Let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it; Yea, let him tread my life down to the earth, And lay my glory in the dust. [Selah
Psalms 7:6 Arise, O Jehovah, in thine anger; Lift up thyself against the rage of mine adversaries, And awake for me; thou hast commanded judgment. 
Psalms 7:7 And let the congregation of the peoples compass thee about; And over them return thou on high. 
Psalms 7:8 Jehovah ministereth judgment to the peoples: Judge me, O Jehovah, according to my righteousness, and to mine integrity that is in me. 
Psalms 7:9 Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish thou the righteous: For the righteous God trieth the minds and hearts. 
Psalms 7:10 My shield is with God, Who saveth the upright in heart. 
Psalms 7:11 God is a righteous judge, Yea, a God that hath indignation every day. 
Psalms 7:12 If a man turn not, he will whet his sword; He hath bent his bow, and made it ready; 
Psalms 7:13 He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; He maketh his arrows fiery shafts. 
Psalms 7:14 Behold, he travaileth with iniquity; Yea, he hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood. 
Psalms 7:15 He hath made a pit, and digged it, And is fallen into the ditch which he made. 
Psalms 7:16 His mischief shall return upon his own head, And his violence shall come down upon his own pate. 
Psalms 7:17 I will give thanks unto Jehovah according to his righteousness, And will sing praise to the name of Jehovah Most High.   
Psalms 8:1   O Jehovah, our Lord, How excellent is thy name in all the earth, Who hast set thy glory upon the heavens! 
Psalms 8:2 Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou established strength, Because of thine adversaries, That thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. 
Psalms 8:3 When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, The moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained; 
Psalms 8:4 What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him? 
Psalms 8:5 For thou hast made him but little lower than God, And crownest him with glory and honor. 
Psalms 8:6 Thou makest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; Thou hast put all things under his feet: 
Psalms 8:7 All sheep and oxen, Yea, and the beasts of the field, 
Psalms 8:8 The birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, Whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. 
Psalms 8:9 O Jehovah, our Lord, How excellent is thy name in all the earth!   
Psalms 9:1   I will give thanks unto Jehovah with my whole heart; I will show forth all thy marvellous works. 
Psalms 9:2 I will be glad and exult in thee; I will sing praise to thy name, O thou Most High. 
Psalms 9:3 When mine enemies turn back, They stumble and perish at thy presence. 
Psalms 9:4 For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; Thou sittest in the throne judging righteously. 
Psalms 9:5 Thou hast rebuked the nations, thou hast destroyed the wicked; Thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever. 
Psalms 9:6 The enemy are come to an end, they are desolate for ever; And the cities which thou hast overthrown, The very remembrance of them is perished. 
Psalms 9:7 But Jehovah sitteth as king for ever: He hath prepared his throne for judgment; 
Psalms 9:8 And he will judge the world in righteousness, He will minister judgment to the peoples in uprightness. 
Psalms 9:9 Jehovah also will be a high tower for the oppressed, A high tower in times of trouble; 
Psalms 9:10 And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee; For thou, Jehovah, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. 
Psalms 9:11 Sing praises to Jehovah, who dwelleth in Zion: Declare among the people his doings. 
Psalms 9:12 For he that maketh inquisition for blood remembereth them; He forgetteth not the cry of the poor. 
Psalms 9:13 Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah; Behold my affliction which I suffer of them that hate me, Thou that liftest me up from the gates of death; 
Psalms 9:14 That I may show forth all thy praise. In the gates of the daughter of Zion I will rejoice in thy salvation. 
Psalms 9:15 The nations are sunk down in the pit that they made: In the net which they hid is their own foot taken. 
Psalms 9:16 Jehovah hath made himself known, he hath executed judgment: The wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. [Higgaion. Selah
Psalms 9:17 The wicked shall be turned back unto Sheol, Even all the nations that forget God. 
Psalms 9:18 For the needy shall not alway be forgotten, Nor the expectation of the poor perish for ever. 
Psalms 9:19 Arise, O Jehovah; let not man prevail: Let the nations be judged in thy sight. 
Psalms 9:20 Put them in fear, O Jehovah: Let the nations know themselves to be but men. [Selah   
Psalms 10:1 Why standest thou afar off, O Jehovah? Why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble? 
Psalms 10:2 In the pride of the wicked the poor is hotly pursued; Let them be taken in the devices that they have conceived. 
Psalms 10:3 For the wicked boasteth of his heart’s desire, And the covetous renounceth, yea, contemneth Jehovah. 
Psalms 10:4 The wicked, in the pride of his countenance, saith, He will not requireit. All his thoughts are, There is no God. 
Psalms 10:5 His ways are firm at all times; Thy judgments are far above out of his sight: As for all his adversaries, he puffeth at them. 
Psalms 10:6 He saith in his heart, I shall not be moved; To all generations I shall not be in adversity. 
Psalms 10:7 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression: Under his tongue is mischief and iniquity. 
Psalms 10:8 He sitteth in the lurking-places of the villages; In the secret places doth he murder the innocent; His eyes are privily set against the helpless. 
Psalms 10:9 He lurketh in secret as a lion in his covert; He lieth in wait to catch the poor: He doth catch the poor, when he draweth him in his net. 
Psalms 10:10 He croucheth, he boweth down, And the helpless fall by his strong ones. 
Psalms 10:11 He saith in his heart: God hath forgotten; He hideth his face, he will never see it. 
Psalms 10:12 Arise, O Jehovah; O God, lift up thy hand: Forget not the poor. 
Psalms 10:13 Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God, And say in his heart, Thou wilt not requireit? 
Psalms 10:14 Thou hast seenit; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite it with thy hand: The helpless committeth himself unto thee; Thou hast been the helper of the fatherless. 
Psalms 10:15 Break thou the arm of the wicked; And as for the evil man, seek out his wickedness till thou find none. 
Psalms 10:16 Jehovah is King for ever and ever: The nations are perished out of his land. 
Psalms 10:17 Jehovah, thou hast heard the desire of the meek: Thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear; 
Psalms 10:18 To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, That man who is of the earth may be terrible no more.   
Song of Solomon 1:1 The Song of songs, which is Solomon’s.  
Song of Solomon 1:2  Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth; For thy love is better than wine. 
Song of Solomon 1:3 Thine oils have a goodly fragrance; Thy name is as oil poured forth; Therefore do the virgins love thee. 
Song of Solomon 1:4 Draw me; we will run after thee: The king hath brought me into his chambers; We will be glad and rejoice in thee; We will make mention of thy love more than of wine: Rightly do they love thee. 
Song of Solomon 1:5  I am black, but comely, Oh ye daughters of Jerusalem, As the tents of Kedar, As the curtains of Solomon. 
Song of Solomon 1:6 Look not upon me, because I am swarthy, Because the sun hath scorched me. My mother’s sons were incensed against me; They made me keeper of the vineyards; But mine own vineyard have I not kept. 
Song of Solomon 1:7 Tell me, O thou whom my soul loveth, Where thou feedest thy flock, Where thou makest it to rest at noon: For why should I be as one that is veiled Beside the flocks of thy companions? 
Song of Solomon 1:8  If thou know not, O thou fairest among women, Go thy way forth by the footsteps of the flock, And feed thy kids beside the shepherds’ tents. 
Song of Solomon 1:9  I have compared thee, O my love, To a steed in Pharaoh’s chariots. 
Malachi 1:1 The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel by Malachi. 
Malachi 1:2 I have loved you, saith Jehovah. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob’s brother? saith Jehovah: yet I loved Jacob; 
Malachi 1:3 but Esau I hated, and made his mountains a desolation, and gave his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness. 
Malachi 1:4 Whereas Edom saith, We are beaten down, but we will return and build the waste places; thus saith Jehovah of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; and men shall call them The border of wickedness, and The people against whom Jehovah hath indignation for ever. 
Malachi 1:5 And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, Jehovah be magnified beyond the border of Israel. 
Malachi 1:6 A son honoreth his father, and a servant his master: if then I am a father, where is mine honor? and if I am a master, where is my fear? saith Jehovah of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? 
Malachi 1:7 Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar. And ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of Jehovah is contemptible. 
Malachi 1:8 And when ye offer the blind for sacrifice, it is no evil! and when ye offer the lame and sick, it is no evil! Present it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee? or will he accept thy person? saith Jehovah of hosts. 
Malachi 1:9 And now, I pray you, entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious unto us: this hath been by your means: will he accept any of your persons? saith Jehovah of hosts. 
Malachi 1:10 Oh that there were one among you that would shut the doors, that ye might not kindle fire on mine altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, saith Jehovah of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand. 
Malachi 1:11 For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name shall be great among the Gentiles, saith Jehovah of hosts. 
Malachi 1:12 But ye profane it, in that ye say, The table of Jehovah is polluted, and the fruit thereof, even its food, is contemptible. 
Malachi 1:13 Ye say also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and ye have snuffed at it, saith Jehovah of hosts; and ye have brought that which was taken by violence, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye bring the offering: should I accept this at your hand? saith Jehovah. 
Malachi 1:14 But cursed be the deceiver, who hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a blemished thing; for I am a great King, saith Jehovah of hosts, and my name is terrible among the Gentiles.  
Malachi 2:1 And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you. 
Matthew 1:1 The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. 
Matthew 1:2 Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat Judah and his brethren; 
Matthew 1:3 and Judah begat Perez and Zerah of Tamar; and Perez begat Hezron; and Hezron begat Ram; 
Matthew 1:4 and Ram begat Amminadab; and Amminadab begat Nahshon; and Nahshon begat Salmon; 
Matthew 1:5 and Salmon begat Boaz of Rahab; and Boaz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse; 
Matthew 1:6 and Jesse begat David the king. And David begat Solomon of her that had been the wife of Uriah; 
Matthew 1:7 and Solomon begat Rehoboam; and Rehoboam begat Abijah; and Abijah begat Asa; 
Matthew 1:8 and Asa begat Jehoshaphat; and Jehoshaphat begat Joram; and Joram begat Uzziah; 
Matthew 1:9 and Uzziah begat Jotham; and Jotham begat Ahaz; and Ahaz begat Hezekiah; 
Mark 1:1 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. 
Mark 1:2 Even as it is written in Isaiah the prophet,  Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, Who shall prepare thy way; 
Mark 1:3 The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make ye ready the way of the Lord, Make his paths straight;  
Mark 1:4 John came, who baptized in the wilderness and preached the baptism of repentance unto remission of sins. 
Mark 1:5 And there went out unto him all the country of Judæa, and all they of Jerusalem; and they were baptized of him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. 
Mark 1:6 And John was clothed with camel’s hair, and had a leathern girdle about his loins, and did eat locusts and wild honey. 
Mark 1:7 And he preached, saying, There cometh after me he that is mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. 
Mark 1:8 I baptized you in water; but he shall baptize you in the Holy Spirit. 
Mark 1:9 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in the Jordan. 
Mark 1:10 And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens rent asunder, and the Spirit as a dove descending upon him: 
Mark 1:11 and a voice came out of the heavens, Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased. 
Mark 1:12 And straightway the Spirit driveth him forth into the wilderness. 
Mark 1:13 And he was in the wilderness forty days tempted of Satan; and he was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him. 
Mark 1:14 Now after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God, 
Mark 1:15 and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe in the gospel. 
Mark 1:16 And passing along by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net in the sea; for they were fishers. 
Mark 1:17 And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. 
Mark 1:18 And straightway they left the nets, and followed him. 
Mark 1:19 And going on a little further, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the boat mending the nets. 
Mark 1:20 And straightway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him. 
Mark 1:21 And they go into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught. 
Mark 1:22 And they were astonished at his teaching: for he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes. 
Mark 1:23 And straightway there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out, 
Mark 1:24 saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus thou Nazarene? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God. 
Mark 1:25 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. 
Mark 1:26 And the unclean spirit, tearing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him. 
Mark 1:27 And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? a new teaching! with authority he commandeth even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. 
Mark 1:28 And the report of him went out straightway everywhere into all the region of Galilee round about. 
Mark 1:29 And straightway, when they were come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. 
Mark 1:30 Now Simon’s wife’s mother lay sick of a fever; and straightway they tell him of her: 
Mark 1:31 and he came and took her by the hand, and raised her up; and the fever left her, and she ministered unto them. 
Mark 1:32 And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were sick, and them that were possessed with demons. 
Mark 1:33 And all the city was gathered together at the door. 
Mark 1:34 And he healed many that were sick with divers diseases, and cast out many demons; and he suffered not the demons to speak, because they knew him. 
Mark 1:35 And in the morning, a great while before day, he rose up and went out, and departed into a desert place, and there prayed. 
Mark 1:36 And Simon and they that were with him followed after him; 
Mark 1:37 and they found him, and say unto him, All are seeking thee. 
Mark 1:38 And he saith unto them, Let us go elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also; for to this end came I forth. 
Mark 1:39 And he went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out demons. 
Mark 1:40 And there cometh to him a leper, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 
Mark 1:41 And being moved with compassion, he stretched forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou made clean. 
Mark 1:42 And straightway the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean. 
Mark 1:43 And he strictly charged him, and straightway sent him out, 
Mark 1:44 and saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 
Mark 1:45 But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to spread abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into a city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter.  
Mark 2:1 And when he entered again into Capernaum after some days, it was noised that he was in the house. 
Mark 2:2 And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room for them, no, not even about the door: and he spake the word unto them. 
Mark 2:3 And they come, bringing unto him a man sick of the palsy, borne of four. 
Mark 2:4 And when they could not come nigh unto him for the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed whereon the sick of the palsy lay. 
Mark 2:5 And Jesus seeing their faith saith unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins are forgiven. 
Mark 2:6 But there were certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts, 
Mark 2:7 Why doth this man thus speak? he blasphemeth: who can forgive sins but one, even God? 
Mark 2:8 And straightway Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, saith unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? 
Mark 2:9 Which is easier, to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins are forgiven; or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk? 
Mark 2:10 But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority on earth to forgive sins (he saith to the sick of the palsy), 
Mark 2:11 I say unto thee, Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thy house. 
Mark 2:12 And he arose, and straightway took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion. 
Mark 2:13 And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught them. 
Mark 2:14 And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphæus sitting at the place of toll, and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. 
Mark 2:15 And it came to pass, that he was sitting at meat in his house, and many publicans and sinners sat down with Jesus and his disciples: for there were many, and they followed him. 
Mark 2:16 And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with the sinners and publicans, said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners? 
Mark 2:17 And when Jesus heard it, he saith unto them, They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. 
Mark 2:18 And John’s disciples and the Pharisees were fasting: and they come and say unto him, Why do John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not? 
Mark 2:19 And Jesus said unto them, Can the sons of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. 
Mark 2:20 But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then will they fast in that day. 
Mark 2:21 No man seweth a piece of undressed cloth on an old garment: else that which should fill it up taketh from it, the new from the old, and a worse rent is made. 
Mark 2:22 And no man putteth new wine into old wine-skins; else the wine will burst the skins, and the wine perisheth, and the skins: but they put new wine into fresh wine-skins. 
Mark 2:23 And it came to pass, that he was going on the sabbath day through the grainfields; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears. 
Mark 2:24 And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful? 
Mark 2:25 And he said unto them, Did ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was hungry, he, and they that were with him? 
Mark 2:26 How he entered into the house of God when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the showbread, which it is not lawful to eat save for the priests, and gave also to them that were with him? 
Mark 2:27 And he said unto them, The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath: 
Mark 2:28 so that the Son of man is lord even of the sabbath.  
Mark 3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there who had his hand withered. 
Mark 3:2 And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might accuse him. 
Mark 3:3 And he saith unto the man that had his hand withered, Stand forth. 
Mark 3:4 And he saith unto them, Is it lawful on the sabbath day to do good, or to do harm? to save a life, or to kill? But they held their peace. 
Mark 3:5 And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved at the hardening of their heart, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it forth; and his hand was restored. 
Mark 3:6 And the Pharisees went out, and straightway with the Herodians took counsel against him, how they might destroy him. 
Mark 3:7 And Jesus with his disciples withdrew to the sea: and a great multitude from Galilee followed; and from Judæa, 
Mark 3:8 and from Jerusalem, and from Idumæa, and beyond the Jordan, and about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing what great things he did, came unto him. 
Mark 3:9 And he spake to his disciples, that a little boat should wait on him because of the crowd, lest they should throng him: 
Mark 3:10 for he had healed many; insomuch that as many as had plagues pressed upon him that they might touch him. 
Mark 3:11 And the unclean spirits, whensoever they beheld him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God. 
Mark 3:12 And he charged them much that they should not make him known. 
Mark 3:13 And he goeth up into the mountain, and calleth unto him whom he himself would; and they went unto him. 
Mark 3:14 And he appointed twelve, that they might be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, 
Mark 3:15 and to have authority to cast out demons: 
Mark 3:16 and Simon he surnamed Peter; 
Mark 3:17 and James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and them he surnamed Boanerges, which is, Sons of thunder: 
Mark 3:18 and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphæus, and Thaddæus, and Simon the Cananæan, 
Mark 3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. And he cometh into a house. 
Mark 3:20 And the multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. 
Mark 3:21 And when his friends heard it, they went out to lay hold on him: for they said, He is beside himself. 
Mark 3:22 And the scribes that came down from Jerusalem said, He hath Beelzebub, and, By the prince of the demons casteth he out the demons. 
Mark 3:23 And he called them unto him, and said unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? 
Mark 3:24 And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 
Mark 3:25 And if a house be divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. 
Mark 3:26 And if Satan hath risen up against himself, and is divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end. 
Mark 3:27 But no one can enter into the house of the strong man, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man; and then he will spoil his house. 
Mark 3:28 Verily I say unto you, All their sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and their blasphemies wherewith soever they shall blaspheme: 
Mark 3:29 but whosoever shall blaspheme against the Holy Spirit hath never forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin: 
Mark 3:30 because they said, He hath an unclean spirit. 
Mark 3:31 And there come his mother and his brethren; and, standing without, they sent unto him, calling him. 
Mark 3:32 And a multitude was sitting about him; and they say unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren without seek for thee. 
Mark 3:33 And he answereth them, and saith, Who is my mother and my brethren? 
Mark 3:34 And looking round on them that sat round about him, he saith, Behold, my mother and my brethren! 
Mark 3:35 For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.  
Mark 4:1 And again he began to teach by the sea side. And there is gathered unto him a very great multitude, so that he entered into a boat, and sat in the sea; and all the multitude were by the sea on the land. 
Mark 4:2 And he taught them many things in parables, and said unto them in his teaching, 
Mark 4:3 Hearken: Behold, the sower went forth to sow: 
Mark 4:4 and it came to pass, as he sowed, some seed fell by the way side, and the birds came and devoured it. 
Mark 4:5 And other fell on the rocky ground, where it had not much earth; and straightway it sprang up, because it had no deepness of earth: 
Mark 4:6 and when the sun was risen, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away. 
Mark 4:7 And other fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. 
Mark 4:8 And others fell into the good ground, and yielded fruit, growing up and increasing; and brought forth, thirtyfold, and sixtyfold, and a hundredfold. 
Mark 4:9 And he said, Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
Mark 4:10 And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked of him the parables. 
Mark 4:11 And he said unto them, Unto you is given the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all things are done in parables: 
Mark 4:12 that seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest haply they should turn again, and it should be forgiven them. 
Mark 4:13 And he saith unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how shall ye know all the parables? 
Mark 4:14 The sower soweth the word. 
Mark 4:15 And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; and when they have heard, straightway cometh Satan, and taketh away the word which hath been sown in them. 
Mark 4:16 And these in like manner are they that are sown upon the rocky places, who, when they have heard the word, straightway receive it with joy; 
Mark 4:17 and they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while; then, when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, straightway they stumble. 
Mark 4:18 And others are they that are sown among the thorns; these are they that have heard the word, 
Mark 4:19 and the cares of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful. 
Mark 4:20 And those are they that were sown upon the good ground; such as hear the word, and accept it, and bear fruit, thirtyfold, and sixtyfold, and a hundredfold. 
Mark 4:21 And he said unto them, Is the lamp brought to be put under the bushel, or under the bed, and not to be put on the stand? 
Mark 4:22 For there is nothing hid, save that it should be manifested; neither was anything made secret, but that it should come to light. 
Mark 4:23 If any man hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
Mark 4:24 And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with what measure ye mete it shall be measured unto you; and more shall be given unto you. 
Mark 4:25 For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not, from him shall be taken away even that which he hath. 
Mark 4:26 And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed upon the earth; 
Mark 4:27 and should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should spring up and grow, he knoweth not how. 
Mark 4:28 The earth beareth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. 
Mark 4:29 But when the fruit is ripe, straightway he putteth forth the sickle, because the harvest is come. 
Mark 4:30 And he said, How shall we liken the kingdom of God? or in what parable shall we set it forth? 
Mark 4:31 It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown upon the earth, though it be less than all the seeds that are upon the earth, 
Mark 4:32 yet when it is sown, groweth up, and becometh greater than all the herbs, and putteth out great branches; so that the birds of the heaven can lodge under the shadow thereof. 
Mark 4:33 And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as they were able to hear it; 
Mark 4:34 and without a parable spake he not unto them: but privately to his own disciples he expounded all things. 
Mark 4:35 And on that day, when even was come, he saith unto them, Let us go over unto the other side. 
Mark 4:36 And leaving the multitude, they take him with them, even as he was, in the boat. And other boats were with him. 
Mark 4:37 And there ariseth a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the boat, insomuch that the boat was now filling. 
Mark 4:38 And he himself was in the stern, asleep on the cushion: and they awake him, and say unto him, Teacher, carest thou not that we perish? 
Mark 4:39 And he awoke, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. 
Mark 4:40 And he said unto them, Why are ye fearful? have ye not yet faith? 
Mark 4:41 And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?  
Mark 5:1 And they came to the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gerasenes. 
Mark 5:2 And when he was come out of the boat, straightway there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, 
Mark 5:3 who had his dwelling in the tombs: and no man could any more bind him, no, not with a chain; 
Mark 5:4 because that he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been rent asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces: and no man had strength to tame him. 
Mark 5:5 And always, night and day, in the tombs and in the mountains, he was crying out, and cutting himself with stones. 
Mark 5:6 And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and worshipped him; 
Mark 5:7 and crying out with a loud voice, he saith, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the Most High God? I adjure thee by God, torment me not. 
Mark 5:8 For he said unto him, Come forth, thou unclean spirit, out of the man. 
Mark 5:9 And he asked him, What is thy name? And he saith unto him, My name is Legion; for we are many. 
Mark 5:10 And he besought him much that he would not send them away out of the country. 
Mark 5:11 Now there was there on the mountain side a great herd of swine feeding. 
Mark 5:12 And they besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them. 
Mark 5:13 And he gave them leave. And the unclean spirits came out, and entered into the swine: and the herd rushed down the steep into the sea, in number about two thousand; and they were drowned in the sea. 
Mark 5:14 And they that fed them fled, and told it in the city, and in the country. And they came to see what it was that had come to pass. 
Mark 5:15 And they come to Jesus, and behold him that was possessed with demons sitting, clothed and in his right mind, even him that had the legion: and they were afraid. 
Mark 5:16 And they that saw it declared unto them how it befell him that was possessed with demons, and concerning the swine. 
Mark 5:17 And they began to beseech him to depart from their borders. 
Mark 5:18 And as he was entering into the boat, he that had been possessed with demons besought him that he might be with him. 
Mark 5:19 And he suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go to thy house unto thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and how he had mercy on thee. 
Mark 5:20 And he went his way, and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him: and all men marvelled. 
Mark 5:21 And when Jesus had crossed over again in the boat unto the other side, a great multitude was gathered unto him; and he was by the sea. 
Mark 5:22 And there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jaïrus by name; and seeing him, he falleth at his feet, 
Mark 5:23 and beseecheth him much, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death: I pray thee, that thou come and lay thy hands on her, that she may be made whole, and live. 
Mark 5:24 And he went with him; and a great multitude followed him, and they thronged him. 
Mark 5:25 And a woman, who had an issue of blood twelve years, 
Mark 5:26 and had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse, 
Mark 5:27 having heard the things concerning Jesus, came in the crowd behind, and touched his garment. 
Mark 5:28 For she said, If I touch but his garments, I shall be made whole. 
Mark 5:29 And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she felt in her body that she was healed of her plague. 
Mark 5:30 And straightway Jesus, perceiving in himself that the power proceeding from him had gone forth, turned him about in the crowd, and said, Who touched my garments? 
Mark 5:31 And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me? 
Mark 5:32 And he looked round about to see her that had done this thing. 
Mark 5:33 But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what had been done to her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth. 
Mark 5:34 And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace, and be whole of thy plague. 
Mark 5:35 While he yet spake, they come from the ruler of the synagogue’s house, saying, Thy daughter is dead: why troublest thou the Teacher any further? 
Mark 5:36 But Jesus, not heeding the word spoken, saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Fear not, only believe. 
Mark 5:37 And he suffered no man to follow with him, save Peter, and James, and John the brother of James. 
Mark 5:38 And they come to the house of the ruler of the synagogue; and he beholdeth a tumult, and many weeping and wailing greatly. 
Mark 5:39 And when he was entered in, he saith unto them, Why make ye a tumult, and weep? the child is not dead, but sleepeth. 
Mark 5:40 And they laughed him to scorn. But he, having put them all forth, taketh the father of the child and her mother and them that were with him, and goeth in where the child was. 
Mark 5:41 And taking the child by the hand, he saith unto her, Talitha cumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, Arise. 
Mark 5:42 And straightway the damsel rose up, and walked; for she was twelve years old. And they were amazed straightway with a great amazement. 
Mark 5:43 And he charged them much that no man should know this: and he commanded that something should be given her to eat.  
Mark 6:1 And he went out from thence; and he cometh into his own country; and his disciples follow him. 
Mark 6:2 And when the sabbath was come, he began to teach in the synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, Whence hath this man these things? and, What is the wisdom that is given unto this man, and what mean such mighty works wrought by his hands? 
Mark 6:3 Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, and Joses, and Judas, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were offended in him. 
Mark 6:4 And Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house. 
Mark 6:5 And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk, and healed them. 
Mark 6:6 And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went round about the villages teaching. 
Mark 6:7 And he calleth unto him the twelve, and began to send them forth by two and two; and he gave them authority over the unclean spirits; 
Mark 6:8 and he charged them that they should take nothing for their journey, save a staff only; no bread, no wallet, no money in their purse; 
Mark 6:9 but to go shod with sandals: and, said he, put not on two coats. 
Mark 6:10 And he said unto them, Wheresoever ye enter into a house, there abide till ye depart thence. 
Mark 6:11 And whatsoever place shall not receive you, and they hear you not, as ye go forth thence, shake off the dust that is under your feet for a testimony unto them. 
Mark 6:12 And they went out, and preached that men should repent. 
Mark 6:13 And they cast out many demons, and anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them. 
Mark 6:14 And king Herod heardthereof; for his name had become known: and he said, John the Baptizer is risen from the dead, and therefore do these powers work in him. 
Mark 6:15 But others said, It is Elijah. And others said, It is a prophet, even as one of the prophets. 
Mark 6:16 But Herod, when he heard thereof, said, John, whom I beheaded, he is risen. 
Mark 6:17 For Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife; for he had married her. 
Mark 6:18 For John said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother’s wife. 
Mark 6:19 And Herodias set herself against him, and desired to kill him; and she could not; 
Mark 6:20 for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and kept him safe. And when he heard him, he was much perplexed; and he heard him gladly. 
Mark 6:21 And when a convenient day was come, that Herod on his birthday made a supper to his lords, and the high captains, and the chief men of Galilee; 
Mark 6:22 and when the daughter of Herodias herself came in and danced, she pleased Herod and them that sat at meat with him; and the king said unto the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt, and I will give it thee. 
Mark 6:23 And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou shalt ask of me, I will give it thee, unto the half of my kingdom. 
Mark 6:24 And she went out, and said unto her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head of John the Baptizer. 
Mark 6:25 And she came in straightway with haste unto the king, and asked, saying, I will that thou forthwith give me on a platter the head of John the Baptist. 
Mark 6:26 And the king was exceeding sorry; but for the sake of his oaths, and of them that sat at meat, he would not reject her. 
Mark 6:27 And straightway the king sent forth a soldier of his guard, and commanded to bring his head: and he went and beheaded him in the prison, 
Mark 6:28 and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the damsel; and the damsel gave it to her mother. 
Mark 6:29 And when his disciples heard thereof, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb. 
Mark 6:30 And the apostles gather themselves together unto Jesus; and they told him all things, whatsoever they had done, and whatsoever they had taught. 
Mark 6:31 And he saith unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a while. For there were many coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat. 
Mark 6:32 And they went away in the boat to a desert place apart. 
Mark 6:33 And the people saw them going, and many knew them, and they ran together there on foot from all the cities, and outwent them. 
Mark 6:34 And he came forth and saw a great multitude, and he had compassion on them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd: and he began to teach them many things. 
Mark 6:35 And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto him, and said, The place is desert, and the day is now far spent; 
Mark 6:36 send them away, that they may go into the country and villages round about, and buy themselves somewhat to eat. 
Mark 6:37 But he answered and said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they say unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred shillings’ worth of bread, and give them to eat? 
Mark 6:38 And he saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two fishes. 
Mark 6:39 And he commanded them that all should sit down by companies upon the green grass. 
Mark 6:40 And they sat down in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties. 
Mark 6:41 And he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake the loaves; and he gave to the disciples to set before them; and the two fishes divided he among them all. 
Mark 6:42 And they all ate, and were filled. 
Mark 6:43 And they took up broken pieces, twelve basketfuls, and also of the fishes. 
Mark 6:44 And they that ate the loaves were five thousand men. 
Mark 6:45 And straightway he constrained his disciples to enter into the boat, and to go before him unto the other side to Bethsaida, while he himself sendeth the multitude away. 
Mark 6:46 And after he had taken leave of them, he departed into the mountain to pray. 
Mark 6:47 And when even was come, the boat was in the midst of the sea, and he alone on the land. 
Mark 6:48 And seeing them distressed in rowing, for the wind was contrary unto them, about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them, walking on the sea; and he would have passed by them: 
Mark 6:49 but they, when they saw him walking on the sea, supposed that it was a ghost, and cried out; 
Mark 6:50 for they all saw him, and were troubled. But he straightway spake with them, and saith unto them, Be of good cheer: it is I; be not afraid. 
Mark 6:51 And he went up unto them into the boat; and the wind ceased: and they were sore amazed in themselves; 
Mark 6:52 for they understood not concerning the loaves, but their heart was hardened. 
Mark 6:53 And when they had crossed over, they came to the land unto Gennesaret, and moored to the shore. 
Mark 6:54 And when they were come out of the boat, straightway the people knew him, 
Mark 6:55 and ran round about that whole region, and began to carry about on their beds those that were sick, where they heard he was. 
Mark 6:56 And wheresoever he entered, into villages, or into cities, or into the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces, and besought him that they might touch if it were but the border of his garment: and as many as touched him were made whole.  
Mark 7:1 And there are gathered together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of the scribes, who had come from Jerusalem, 
Mark 7:2 and had seen that some of his disciples ate their bread with defiled, that is, unwashen, hands. 
Mark 7:3 (For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, except they wash their hands diligently, eat not, holding the tradition of the elders; 
Mark 7:4 and when they come from the marketplace, except they bathe themselves, they eat not; and many other things there are, which they have received to hold, washings of cups, and pots, and brasen vessels.) 
Mark 7:5 And the Pharisees and the scribes ask him, Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with defiled hands? 
Mark 7:6 And he said unto them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written,  This people honoreth me with their lips, But their heart is far from me. 
Mark 7:7 But in vain do they worship me, Teachingas theirdoctrines the precepts of men.  
Mark 7:8 Ye leave the commandment of God, and hold fast the tradition of men. 
Mark 7:9 And he said unto them, Full well do ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your tradition. 
Mark 7:10 For Moses said, Honor thy father and thy mother; and, He that speaketh evil of father or mother, let him die the death: 
Mark 7:11 but ye say, If a man shall say to his father or his mother, That wherewith thou mightest have been profited by me is Corban, that is to say, Given to God; 
Mark 7:12 ye no longer suffer him to do aught for his father or his mother; 
Mark 7:13 making void the word of God by your tradition, which ye have delivered: and many such like things ye do. 
Mark 7:14 And he called to him the multitude again, and said unto them, Hear me all of you, and understand: 
Mark 7:15 there is nothing from without the man, that going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of the man are those that defile the man. 
Mark 7:16  
Mark 7:17 And when he was entered into the house from the multitude, his disciples asked of him the parable. 
Mark 7:18 And he saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also? Perceive ye not, that whatsoever from without goeth into the man, it cannot defile him; 
Mark 7:19 because it goeth not into his heart, but into his belly, and goeth out into the draught? This he said, making all meats clean. 
Mark 7:20 And he said, That which proceedeth out of the man, that defileth the man. 
Mark 7:21 For from within, out of the heart of men, evil thoughts proceed, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, 
Mark 7:22 covetings, wickednesses, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, railing, pride, foolishness: 
Mark 7:23 all these evil things proceed from within, and defile the man. 
Mark 7:24 And from thence he arose, and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered into a house, and would have no man know it; and he could not be hid. 
Mark 7:25 But straightway a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his feet. 
Mark 7:26 Now the woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by race. And she besought him that he would cast forth the demon out of her daughter. 
Mark 7:27 And he said unto her, Let the children first be filled: for it is not meet to take the children’s bread and cast it to the dogs. 
Mark 7:28 But she answered and saith unto him, Yea, Lord; even the dogs under the table eat of the children’s crumbs. 
Mark 7:29 And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way; the demon is gone out of thy daughter. 
Mark 7:30 And she went away unto her house, and found the child laid upon the bed, and the demon gone out. 
Mark 7:31 And again he went out from the borders of Tyre, and came through Sidon unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the borders of Decapolis. 
Mark 7:32 And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech; and they beseech him to lay his hand upon him. 
Mark 7:33 And he took him aside from the multitude privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spat, and touched his tongue; 
Mark 7:34 and looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened. 
Mark 7:35 And his ears were opened, and the bond of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain. 
Mark 7:36 And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal they published it. 
Mark 7:37 And they were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well; he maketh even the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.  
