BBE

Genesis 1:1 At the first God made the heaven and the earth.
Genesis 1:2 And the earth was waste and without form; and it was dark on the face of the deep: and the Spirit of God was moving on the face of the waters.
Genesis 1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
Genesis 1:4 And God, looking on the light, saw that it was good: and God made a division between the light and the dark,
Genesis 1:5 Naming the light, Day, and the dark, Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day.
Genesis 1:6 And God said, Let there be a solid arch stretching over the waters, parting the waters from the waters.
Genesis 1:7 And God made the arch for a division between the waters which were under the arch and those which were over it: and it was so.
Genesis 1:8 And God gave the arch the name of Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, the second day.
Genesis 1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heaven come together in one place, and let the dry land be seen: and it was so.
Numbers 1:1 And the Lord said to Moses in the waste land of Sinai, in the Tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they came out of the land of Egypt,
Numbers 1:2 Take the full number of the children of Israel, by their families, and by their fathers' houses, every male by name;
Numbers 1:3 All those of twenty years old and over, who are able to go to war in Israel, are to be numbered by you and Aaron.
Numbers 1:4 And to give you help, take one man from every tribe, the head of his father's house.
Numbers 1:5 These are the names of those who are to be your helpers: from Reuben, Elizur, the son of Shedeur;
Numbers 1:6 From Simeon, Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai;
Numbers 1:7 From Judah, Nahshon, the son of Amminadab;
Numbers 1:8 From Issachar, Nethanel, the son of Zuar;
Numbers 2:1 And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron,
Numbers 2:2 The children of Israel are to put up their tents in the order of their families, by the flags of their fathers' houses, facing the Tent of meeting on every side.
Numbers 2:3 Those whose tents are on the east side, looking to the dawn, will be round the flag of the children of Judah, with Nahshon, the son of Amminadab, as their chief.
Numbers 2:4 The number of his army was seventy-four thousand, six hundred.
Numbers 2:5 And nearest to him will be the tribe of Issachar, with Nethanel, the son of Zuar, as their chief.
Numbers 2:6 The number of his army was fifty-four thousand, four hundred.
Numbers 2:7 After him, the tribe of Zebulun, with Eliab, the son of Helon, as their chief.
Numbers 3:1 Now these are the generations of Aaron and Moses, in the day when the word of the Lord came to Moses on Mount Sinai.
Numbers 3:2 These are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the oldest, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Numbers 3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests, on whom the holy oil was put, who were marked out as priests.
Numbers 3:4 And Nadab and Abihu were put to death before the Lord when they made an offering of strange fire before the Lord, in the waste land of Sinai, and they had no children: and Eleazar and Ithamar did the work of priests before Aaron their father.
Numbers 3:5 And the Lord said to Moses,
Numbers 3:6 Make the tribe of Levi come near, and put them before Aaron the priest, to be his helpers,
Numbers 3:7 In order that they may be responsible to him and to all Israel for the care of the Tent of meeting, and to do the work of the House;
Numbers 3:8 And they will have the care of all the vessels of the Tent of meeting, and will do for the children of Israel all the necessary work of the House.
Numbers 3:9 Give the Levites to Aaron and his sons; so that they may be his without question from among the children of Israel.
Numbers 3:10 And give orders that Aaron and his sons are to keep their place as priests; any strange person who comes near is to be put to death.
Numbers 3:11 And the Lord said to Moses,
1 Samuel 1:1 Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim, a Zuphite of the hill-country of Ephraim, named Elkanah; he was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite:
1 Samuel 1:2 And he had two wives, one named Hannah and the other Peninnah: and Peninnah was the mother of children, but Hannah had no children.
1 Samuel 1:3 Now this man went up from his town every year to give worship and to make offerings to the Lord of armies in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of the Lord, were there.
1 Samuel 1:4 And when the day came for Elkanah to make his offering, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, their part of the feast:
1 Samuel 1:5 But to Hannah he gave one part, though Hannah was very dear to him, but the Lord had not let her have children.
1 Samuel 1:6 And the other wife did everything possible to make her unhappy, because the Lord had not let her have children;
1 Samuel 1:7 And year by year, whenever she went up to the house of the Lord, she kept on attacking her, so that Hannah gave herself up to weeping and would take no food.
1 Samuel 1:8 Then her husband Elkanah said to her, Hannah, why are you weeping? and why are you taking no food? why is your heart troubled? am I not more to you than ten sons?
1 Samuel 1:9 So after they had taken food and wine in the guest room, Hannah got up. Now Eli the priest was seated by the pillars of the doorway of the Temple of the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:10 And with grief in her soul, weeping bitterly, she made her prayer to the Lord.
2 Samuel 1:1 Now after the death of Saul, when David, having come back from the destruction of the Amalekites, had been in Ziklag for two days;
2 Samuel 1:2 On the third day a man came from Saul's tents, with his clothing out of order and earth on his head: and when he came to David, he went down on the earth and gave him honour.
2 Samuel 1:3 And David said to him, Where have you come from? And he said, I have come in flight from the tents of Israel.
2 Samuel 1:4 And David said to him, How did things go? Give me the news. And in answer he said, The people have gone in flight from the fight, and a great number of them are dead; and Saul and his son Jonathan are dead.
2 Samuel 1:5 And David said to the young man who gave him the news, Why are you certain that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?
2 Samuel 1:6 And the young man said, I came by chance to Mount Gilboa, and I saw Saul supporting himself on his spear; and the war-carriages and horsemen overtook him.
2 Samuel 1:7 And looking back, he saw me and gave a cry to me. And answering him I said, Here am I.
2 Samuel 1:8 And he said to me, Who are you? And I said, I am an Amalekite.
Psalms 1:1 Happy is the man who does not go in the company of sinners, or take his place in the way of evil-doers, or in the seat of those who do not give honour to the Lord.
Psalms 1:2 But whose delight is in the law of the Lord, and whose mind is on his law day and night.
Psalms 1:3 He will be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, which gives its fruit at the right time, whose leaves will ever be green; and he will do well in all his undertakings.
Psalms 1:4 The evil-doers are not so; but are like the dust from the grain, which the wind takes away.
Psalms 1:5 For this cause there will be no mercy for sinners when they are judged, and the evil-doers will have no place among the upright,
Psalms 1:6 Because the Lord sees the way of the upright, but the end of the sinner is destruction.
Psalms 2:1 Why are the nations so violently moved, and why are the thoughts of the people so foolish?
Psalms 2:2 The kings of the earth have taken their place, and the rulers are fixed in their purpose, against the Lord, and against the king of his selection, saying,
Psalms 2:3 Let their chains be broken, and their cords taken from off us.
Psalms 2:4 Then he whose seat is in the heavens will be laughing: the Lord will make sport of them.
Psalms 2:5 Then will his angry words come to their ears, and by his wrath they will be troubled:
Psalms 2:6 But I have put my king on my holy hill of Zion.
Psalms 2:7 I will make clear the Lord's decision: he has said to me, You are my son, this day have I given you being.
Psalms 2:8 Make your request to me, and I will give you the nations for your heritage, and the farthest limits of the earth will be under your hand.
Psalms 2:9 They will be ruled by you with a rod of iron; they will be broken like a potter's vessel.
Psalms 2:10 So now be wise, you kings: take his teaching, you judges of the earth.
Psalms 2:11 Give worship to the Lord with fear, kissing his feet and giving him honour,
Psalms 2:12 For fear that he may be angry, causing destruction to come on you, because he is quickly moved to wrath. Happy are all those who put their faith in him.
Psalms 3:1  Lord, how greatly are they increased who make attacks on me! in great numbers they come against me.
Psalms 3:2 Unnumbered are those who say of my soul, There is no help for him in God. (Selah.)
Psalms 3:3 But your strength, O Lord, is round me, you are my glory and the lifter up of my head.
Psalms 3:4 I send up a cry to the Lord with my voice, and he gives me an answer from his holy hill. (Selah.)
Psalms 3:5 I took my rest in sleep, and then again I was awake; for the Lord was my support.
Psalms 3:6 I will have no fear, though ten thousand have come round me, putting themselves against me.
Psalms 3:7 Come to me, Lord; keep me safe, O my God; for you have given all my haters blows on their face-bones; the teeth of the evil-doers have been broken by you.
Psalms 3:8 Salvation comes from the Lord; your blessing is on your people. (Selah.)
Psalms 4:1  Give answer to my cry, O God of my righteousness; make me free from my troubles; have mercy on me, and give ear to my prayer.
Psalms 4:2 O you sons of men, how long will you go on turning my glory into shame? how long will you give your love to foolish things, going after what is false? (Selah.)
Psalms 4:3 See how the Lord has made great his mercy for me; the Lord will give ear to my cry.
Psalms 4:4 Let there be fear in your hearts, and do no sin; have bitter feelings on your bed, but make no sound. (Selah.)
Psalms 4:5 Give the offerings of righteousness, and put your faith in the Lord.
Psalms 4:6 There are numbers who say, Who will do us any good? the light of his face has gone from us.
Psalms 4:7 Lord, you have put joy in my heart, more than they have when their grain and their wine are increased.
Psalms 4:8 I will take my rest on my bed in peace, because you only, Lord, keep me safe.
Psalms 5:1  Give ear to my words, O Lord; give thought to my heart-searchings.
Psalms 5:2 Let the voice of my cry come to you, my King and my God; for to you will I make my prayer.
Psalms 5:3 My voice will come to you in the morning, O Lord; in the morning will I send my prayer to you, and keep watch.
Psalms 5:4 For you are not a God who takes pleasure in wrongdoing; there is no evil with you.
Psalms 5:5 The sons of pride have no place before you; you are a hater of all workers of evil.
Psalms 5:6 You will send destruction on those whose words are false; the cruel man and the man of deceit are hated by the Lord.
Psalms 5:7 But as for me, I will come into your house, in the full measure of your mercy; and in your fear I will give worship, turning my eyes to your holy Temple.
Psalms 5:8 Be my guide, O Lord, in the ways of your righteousness, because of those who are against me; make your way straight before my face.
Psalms 5:9 For no faith may be put in their words; their inner part is nothing but evil; their throat is like an open place for the dead; smooth are the words of their tongues.
Psalms 5:10 Send them to destruction, O Lord; let their evil designs be the cause of their fall; let them be forced out by all their sins; because they have gone against your authority.
Psalms 5:11 But let all those who put their faith in you be glad with cries of joy at all times, and let all the lovers of your name be glad in you.
Psalms 5:12 For you, Lord, will send a blessing on the upright man; your grace will be round him, and you will be his strength.
Psalms 6:1  O Lord, do not be bitter with me in your wrath; do not send punishment on me in the heat of your passion.
Psalms 6:2 Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I am wasted away: make me well, for even my bones are troubled.
Psalms 6:3 My soul is in bitter trouble; and you, O Lord, how long?
Psalms 6:4 Come back, O Lord, make my soul free; O give me salvation because of your mercy.
Psalms 6:5 For in death there is no memory of you; in the underworld who will give you praise?
Psalms 6:6 The voice of my sorrow is a weariness to me; all the night I make my bed wet with weeping; it is watered by the drops flowing from my eyes.
Psalms 6:7 My eyes are wasting away with trouble; they are becoming old because of all those who are against me.
Psalms 6:8 Go from me, all you workers of evil; for the Lord has given ear to the voice of my weeping.
Psalms 6:9 The Lord has given ear to my request; the Lord has let my prayer come before him.
Psalms 6:10 Let all those who are against me be shamed and deeply troubled; let them be turned back and suddenly put to shame.
Psalms 7:1  O Lord my God, I put my faith in you; take me out of the hands of him who is cruel to me, and make me free;
Psalms 7:2 So that he may not come rushing on my soul like a lion, wounding it, while there is no one to be my saviour.
Psalms 7:3 O Lord my God, if I have done this; if my hands have done any wrong;
Psalms 7:4 If I have given back evil to him who did evil to me, or have taken anything from him who was against me without cause;
Psalms 7:5 Let my hater go after my soul and take it; let my life be crushed to the earth, and my honour into the dust. (Selah.)
Psalms 7:6 Come up, Lord, in your wrath; be lifted up against my haters; be awake, my God, give orders for the judging.
Psalms 7:7 The meeting of the nations will be round you; take your seat, then, over them, on high.
Psalms 7:8 The Lord will be judge of the peoples; give a decision for me, O Lord, because of my righteousness, and let my virtue have its reward.
Psalms 7:9 O let the evil of the evil-doer come to an end, but give strength to the upright: for men's minds and hearts are tested by the God of righteousness.
Psalms 7:10 God, who is the saviour of the upright in heart, is my breastplate.
Psalms 7:11 God is the judge of the upright, and is angry with the evil-doers every day.
Psalms 7:12 If a man is not turned from his evil, he will make his sword sharp; his bow is bent and ready.
Psalms 7:13 He has made ready for him the instruments of death; he makes his arrows flames of fire.
Psalms 7:14 That man is a worker of evil; the seed of wrongdoing has given birth to deceit.
Psalms 7:15 He has made a hole deep in the earth, and is falling into the hole which he has made
Psalms 7:16 His wrongdoing will come back to him, and his violent behaviour will come down on his head.
Psalms 7:17 I will give praise to the Lord for his righteousness; I will make a song to the name of the Lord Most High.
Psalms 8:1  O Lord, our Lord, whose glory is higher than the heavens, how noble is your name in all the earth!
Psalms 8:2 You have made clear your strength even out of the mouths of babies at the breast, because of those who are against you; so that you may put to shame the cruel and violent man.
Psalms 8:3 When I see your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have put in their places;
Psalms 8:4 What is man, that you keep him in mind? the son of man, that you take him into account?
Psalms 8:5 For you have made him only a little lower than the gods, crowning him with glory and honour.
Psalms 8:6 You have made him ruler over the works of your hands; you have put all things under his feet;
Psalms 8:7 All sheep and oxen, and all the beasts of the field;
Psalms 8:8 The birds of the air and the fish of the sea, and whatever goes through the deep waters of the seas.
Psalms 8:9 O Lord, our Lord, how noble is your name in all the earth!
Psalms 9:1  I will give you praise, O Lord, with all my heart; I will make clear all the wonder of your works.
Psalms 9:2 I will be glad and have delight in you: I will make a song of praise to your name, O Most High.
Psalms 9:3 When my haters are turned back, they will be broken and overcome before you.
Psalms 9:4 For you gave approval to my right and my cause; you were seated in your high place judging in righteousness.
Psalms 9:5 You have said sharp words to the nations, you have sent destruction on the sinners, you have put an end to their name for ever and ever.
Psalms 9:6 You have given their towns to destruction; the memory of them has gone; they have become waste for ever.
Psalms 9:7 But the Lord is King for ever: he has made ready his high seat for judging.
Psalms 9:8 And he will be the judge of the world in righteousness, giving true decisions for the peoples.
Psalms 9:9 The Lord will be a high tower for those who are crushed down, a high tower in times of trouble;
Psalms 9:10 And those who have knowledge of your name will put their faith in you; because you, Lord, have ever given your help to those who were waiting for you.
Psalms 9:11 Make songs of praise to the Lord, whose house is in Zion: make his doings clear to the people.
Psalms 9:12 When he makes search for blood, he has them in his memory: he is not without thought for the cry of the poor.
Psalms 9:13 Have mercy on me, O Lord, and see how I am troubled by my haters; let me be lifted up from the doors of death;
Psalms 9:14 So that I may make clear all your praise in the house of the daughter of Zion: I will be glad because of your salvation.
Psalms 9:15 The nations have gone down into the hole which they made: in their secret net is their foot taken.
Psalms 9:16 The Lord has given knowledge of himself through his judging: the evil-doer is taken in the net which his hands had made. (Higgaion. Selah.)
Psalms 9:17 The sinners and all the nations who have no memory of God will be turned into the underworld.
Psalms 9:18 For the poor will not be without help; the hopes of those in need will not be crushed for ever.
Psalms 9:19 Up! O Lord; let not man overcome you: let the nations be judged before you.
Psalms 9:20 Put them in fear, O Lord, so that the nations may see that they are only men. (Selah.)
Psalms 10:1 Why do you keep far away, O Lord? why are you not to be seen in times of trouble?
Psalms 10:2 The evil-doer in his pride is cruel to the poor; let him be taken by the tricks of his invention.
Psalms 10:3 For the evil-doer is lifted up because of the purpose of his heart, and he whose mind is fixed on wealth is turned away from the Lord, saying evil against him.
Psalms 10:4 The evil-doer in his pride says, God will not make a search. All his thoughts are, There is no God.
Psalms 10:5 His ways are ever fixed; your decisions are higher than he may see: as for his haters, they are as nothing to him.
Psalms 10:6 He has said in his heart, I will not be moved: through all generations I will never be in trouble.
Psalms 10:7 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and false words: under his tongue are evil purposes and dark thoughts.
Psalms 10:8 He is waiting in the dark places of the towns: in the secret places he puts to death those who have done no wrong: his eyes are secretly turned against the poor.
Psalms 10:9 He keeps himself in a secret place like a lion in his hole, waiting to put his hands on the poor man, and pulling him into his net.
Psalms 10:10 The upright are crushed and made low, and the feeble are overcome by his strong ones.
Psalms 10:11 He says in his heart, God has no memory of me: his face is turned away; he will never see it.
Psalms 10:12 Up! O Lord; let your hand be lifted: give thought to the poor.
Psalms 10:13 Why has the evil-doer a low opinion of God, saying in his heart, You will not make search for it?
Psalms 10:14 You have seen it; for your eyes are on sorrow and grief, to take it into your hand: the poor man puts his faith in you; you have been the helper of the child who has no father.
Psalms 10:15 Let the arm of the sinner and the evil-doer be broken; go on searching for his sin till there is no more.
Psalms 10:16 The Lord is King for ever and ever; the nations are gone from his land.
Psalms 10:17 Lord, you have given ear to the prayer of the poor: you will make strong their hearts, you will give them a hearing:
Psalms 10:18 To give decision for the child without a father and for the broken-hearted, so that the man of the earth may no longer be feared.
Song of Solomon 1:1 The song of Songs, which is Solomon's.
Song of Solomon 1:2 Let him give me the kisses of his mouth: for his love is better than wine.
Song of Solomon 1:3 Sweet is the smell of your perfumes; your name is as perfume running out; so the young girls give you their love.
Song of Solomon 1:4 Take me to you, and we will go after you: the king has taken me into his house. We will be glad and full of joy in you, we will give more thought to your love than to wine: rightly are they your lovers.
Song of Solomon 1:5 I am dark, but fair of form, O daughters of Jerusalem, as the tents of Kedar, as the curtains of Solomon.
Song of Solomon 1:6 Let not your eyes be turned on me, because I am dark, because I was looked on by the sun; my mother's children were angry with me; they made me the keeper of the vine-gardens; but my vine-garden I have not kept.
Song of Solomon 1:7 Say, O love of my soul, where you give food to your flock, and where you make them take their rest in the heat of the day; why have I to be as one wandering by the flocks of your friends?
Song of Solomon 1:8 If you have not knowledge, O most beautiful among women, go on your way in the footsteps of the flock, and give your young goats food by the tents of the keepers.
Song of Solomon 1:9 I have made a comparison of you, O my love, to a horse in Pharaoh's carriages.
Malachi 1:1 The word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi.
Malachi 1:2 You have been loved by me, says the Lord. But you say, Where was your love for us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? says the Lord: but Jacob was loved by me,
Malachi 1:3 And Esau was hated, and I sent destruction on his mountains, and gave his heritage to the beasts of the waste land.
Malachi 1:4 Though Edom says, We are crushed down but we will come back, building up the waste places; this is what the Lord of armies has said: They may put up buildings, but I will have them pulled down; and they will be named The land of evil-doing, and The people against whom the Lord keeps his wrath for ever.
Malachi 1:5 And your eyes will see it; and you will say, The Lord is great even outside the limits of Israel.
Malachi 1:6 A son gives honour to his father, and a servant has fear of his master: if then I am a father, where is my honour? and if I am a master, where is the fear of me? says the Lord of armies to you, O priests, who give no value to my name. And you say, How have we not given value to your name?
Malachi 1:7 You put unclean bread on my altar. And you say, How have we made it unclean? By your saying, The table of the Lord is of no value.
Malachi 1:8 And when you give what is blind for an offering, it is no evil! and when you give what is damaged and ill, it is no evil! Give it now to your ruler; will he be pleased with you, or will you have his approval? says the Lord of armies.
Malachi 1:9 And now, make request for the grace of God so that he may have mercy on us: this has been your doing: will he give his approval to any of you? says the Lord of armies.
Malachi 1:10 If only there was one among you who would see that the doors were shut, so that you might not put a light to the fire on my altar for nothing! I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of armies, and I will not take an offering from your hands.
Malachi 1:11 For, from the coming up of the sun till its going down, my name is great among the Gentiles; and in every place the smell of burning flesh is offered to my name, and a clean offering: for my name is great among the Gentiles, says the Lord of armies.
Malachi 1:12 But you make it unholy by saying, The Lord's table has become unclean, and his food is of no value.
Malachi 1:13 And you say, See, what a weariness it is! and you let out your breath at it, says the Lord of armies; and you have given what has been cut about by beasts, and what is damaged in its feet and ill; this is the offering you give: will this be pleasing to me from your hands? says the Lord.
Malachi 1:14 A curse on the false man who has a male in his flock, and takes his oath, and gives to the Lord a damaged thing: for I am a great King, says the Lord of armies, and my name is to be feared among the Gentiles.
Malachi 2:1 And now, O you priests, this order is for you.
Matthew 1:1 The book of the generations of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
Matthew 1:2 The son of Abraham was Isaac; and the son of Isaac was Jacob; and the sons of Jacob were Judah and his brothers;
Matthew 1:3 And the sons of Judah were Perez and Zerah by Tamar; and the son of Perez was Hezron; and the son of Hezron was Ram;
Matthew 1:4 And the son of Ram was Amminadab; and the son of Amminadab was Nahshon; and the son of Nahshon was Salmon;
Matthew 1:5 And the son of Salmon by Rahab was Boaz; and the son of Boaz by Ruth was Obed; and the son of Obed was Jesse;
Matthew 1:6 And the son of Jesse was David the king; and the son of David was Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah;
Matthew 1:7 And the son of Solomon was Rehoboam; and the son of Rehoboam was Abijah; and the son of Abijah was Asa;
Matthew 1:8 And the son of Asa was Jehoshaphat; and the son of Jehoshaphat was Joram; and the son of Joram was Uzziah;
Matthew 1:9 And the son of Uzziah was Jotham; and the son of Jotham was Ahaz; and the son of Ahaz was Hezekiah;
Mark 1:1 The first words of the good news of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
Mark 1:2 Even as it is said in the book of Isaiah the prophet, See, I send my servant before your face, who will make ready your way;
Mark 1:3 The voice of one crying in the waste land, Make ready the way of the Lord, make his roads straight;
Mark 1:4 John came, and gave baptism in the waste land, preaching baptism as a sign of forgiveness of sin for those whose hearts were changed.
Mark 1:5 And there went out to him all the people of Judaea, and all those of Jerusalem, and they were given baptism by him in the river Jordan, saying that they were sinners.
Mark 1:6 And John was clothed in camel's hair, with a leather band about him; and his food was locusts and honey.
Mark 1:7 And he said to them all, There is one coming after me who is greater than I, whose shoes I am not good enough to undo.
Mark 1:8 I have given you baptism with water, but he will give you baptism with the Holy Spirit.
Mark 1:9 And it came about in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was given baptism by John in the Jordan.
Mark 1:10 And straight away, coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens broken open and the Spirit coming down on him as a dove:
Mark 1:11 And a voice came out of heaven, You are my dearly loved Son, with whom I am well pleased.
Mark 1:12 And straight away the Spirit sent him out into the waste land.
Mark 1:13 And he was in the waste land for forty days, being tested by Satan; and he was with the beasts; and the angels took care of him.
Mark 1:14 Now after John had been put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the good news of God,
Mark 1:15 And saying, The time has come, and the kingdom of God is near: let your hearts be turned from sin and have faith in the good news.
Mark 1:16 And going by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon, and Andrew, the brother of Simon, putting a net into the sea: for they were fishermen.
Mark 1:17 And Jesus said to them, Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men.
Mark 1:18 And they went straight from their nets, and came after him.
Mark 1:19 And going on a little farther, he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were in their boat stitching up their nets.
Mark 1:20 And he said, Come after me: and they went away from their father Zebedee, who was in the boat with the servants, and came after him.
Mark 1:21 And they came to Capernaum; and on the Sabbath he went into the Synagogue and gave teaching.
Mark 1:22 And they were full of wonder at his teaching, because he gave it as one having authority, and not like the scribes.
Mark 1:23 And there was in their Synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he gave a cry,
Mark 1:24 Saying, What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? have you come to put an end to us? I see well who you are, the Holy One of God.
Mark 1:25 And Jesus said to him sharply, Be quiet, and come out of him.
Mark 1:26 And the unclean spirit, shaking him violently, and crying with a loud voice, came out of him.
Mark 1:27 And they were all greatly surprised, so that they put questions to one another, saying, What is this? a new teaching! with authority he gives orders even to the unclean spirits, and they do what he says.
Mark 1:28 And news of him went out quickly everywhere into all parts of Galilee round about.
Mark 1:29 And when they came out of the Synagogue, they went into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
Mark 1:30 Now Simon's wife's mother was ill, with a burning heat; and they gave him word of her:
Mark 1:31 And he came and took her by the hand, lifting her up; and she became well, and took care of their needs.
Mark 1:32 And in the evening, at sundown, they took to him all who were diseased, and those who had evil spirits.
Mark 1:33 And all the town had come together at the door.
Mark 1:34 And a number, who were ill with different diseases, he made well, and sent out evil spirits; but he did not let the evil spirits say anything, because they had knowledge of him.
Mark 1:35 And in the morning, a long time before daylight, he got up and went out to a quiet place, and there he gave himself up to prayer.
Mark 1:36 And Simon and those who were with him came after him.
Mark 1:37 And when they came up with him, they said to him, Everyone is looking for you.
Mark 1:38 And he said to them, Let us go to other parts into the nearest towns, so that I may give teaching there, because for this purpose I came.
Mark 1:39 And he went into their Synagogues in every part of Galilee, preaching and driving out evil spirits.
Mark 1:40 And a leper came to him and, going down on his knees before him, made a request, saying, If it is your pleasure, you have the power to make me clean.
Mark 1:41 And being moved with pity, he put out his hand, and touching him said to him, It is my pleasure; be made clean.
Mark 1:42 And straight away the disease went from him, and he was made clean.
Mark 1:43 And he sent him away, saying to him very sharply,
Mark 1:44 See that you say nothing to any man: but go and let the priest see you, and make yourself clean by an offering of the things ordered by Moses, for a witness to them.
Mark 1:45 But he went out, and made it public, giving an account of it everywhere, so that Jesus was no longer able to go openly into a town, but was outside in the waste land; and they came to him from every part.
Mark 2:1 And when he came into Capernaum again after some days, the news went about that he was in the house.
Mark 2:2 And a great number had come together, so that there was no longer room for them, no, not even about the door: and he gave them teaching.
Mark 2:3 And four men came to him with one on a bed who had no power of moving.
Mark 2:4 And when they were unable to get near him because of all the people, they got the roof uncovered where he was: and when it was broken up, they let down the bed on which the man was.
Mark 2:5 And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to him, Son, you have forgiveness for your sins.
Mark 2:6 But there were certain of the scribes seated there, and reasoning in their hearts,
Mark 2:7 Why does this man say such things? he has no respect for God: from whom does forgiveness come but from God only?
Mark 2:8 And Jesus, having knowledge in his spirit of their thoughts, said to them, Why are you reasoning about these things in your hearts?
Mark 2:9 Which is the simpler, to say to a man who is ill, You have forgiveness for your sins, or, Get up, take up your bed, and go?
Mark 2:10 But so that you may see that the Son of man has authority for the forgiveness of sins on earth, (he said to the man,)
Mark 2:11 I say to you, Get up, take up your bed, and go to your house.
Mark 2:12 And he got up, and straight away took up the bed and went out before them all, so that they were all full of wonder, and gave glory to God, saying, We have never seen anything like this.
Mark 2:13 And he went out again by the seaside; and all the people came to him, and he gave them teaching.
Mark 2:14 And when he went by, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus, seated at the place where taxes were taken, and he said to him, Come with me. And he got up, and went with him.
Mark 2:15 And it came about that he was seated at meat in his house, and a number of tax-farmers and sinners were at table with Jesus and his disciples: for there were a great number of them, and they came after him.
Mark 2:16 And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was taking food with the tax-farmers and sinners, said to his disciples, Why does he take food and drink with such men?
Mark 2:17 And Jesus, hearing it, said to them, Those who are well have no need of a medical man, but those who are ill: I have come not to get the upright but sinners.
Mark 2:18 And John's disciples and the Pharisees were taking no food: and they came and said to him, Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees go without food, but your disciples do not?
Mark 2:19 And Jesus said to them, Will the friends of a newly-married man go without food while he is with them? as long as they have him with them they will not go without food.
Mark 2:20 But the days will come when the husband will be taken away from them, and then they will go without food.
Mark 2:21 No man puts a bit of new cloth on an old coat: or the new, by pulling away from the old, makes a worse hole.
Mark 2:22 And no man puts new wine into old wine-skins: or the skins will be burst by the wine, and the wine and the skins will be wasted: but new wine has to be put into new wine-skins.
Mark 2:23 And it came about that on the Sabbath day he was going through the grain-fields; and while they were walking, his disciples took the heads of grain.
Mark 2:24 And the Pharisees said to him, Why are they doing what it is not right to do on the Sabbath?
Mark 2:25 And he said to them, Have you no knowledge of what David did, when he had need and was without food, he, and those who were with him?
Mark 2:26 How he went into the house of God when Abiathar was high priest, and took for food the holy bread, which only the priests may take, and gave it to those who were with him?
Mark 2:27 And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath;
Mark 2:28 So that the Son of man is lord even of the Sabbath.
Mark 3:1 And he went again into the Synagogue; and there was a man there whose hand was dead.
Mark 3:2 And they were watching him to see if he would make him well on the Sabbath day, so that they might have something against him.
Mark 3:3 And he said to the man, Get up and come forward.
Mark 3:4 And he said to them, Is it right to do good on the Sabbath or to do evil? to give life or to put to death? But they said nothing.
Mark 3:5 And looking round on them he was angry, being sad because of their hard hearts; and he said to the man, Put out your hand. And he put it out, and his hand was made well.
Mark 3:6 And the Pharisees went out, and straight away made designs with the Herodians about how they might put him to death.
Mark 3:7 And Jesus went away with his disciples to the sea, and a great number from Galilee came after him: and from Judaea,
Mark 3:8 And from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and the other side of Jordan, and the country about Tyre and Sidon, a great number, hearing what great things he did, came to him.
Mark 3:9 And he made a request to his disciples to have a little boat ready for him, so that he might not be crushed by the people;
Mark 3:10 For he had made such a great number well that all those who were diseased were falling down before him for the purpose of touching him.
Mark 3:11 And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, went down before him, crying out, and saying, You are the Son of God.
Mark 3:12 And he gave them special orders not to say who he was.
Mark 3:13 And he went up into the mountain, and sent for those whom it was his pleasure to have with him: and they went to him.
Mark 3:14 And he took twelve to be with him, so that he might send them out as preachers,
Mark 3:15 And give them the power of driving out evil spirits:
Mark 3:16 To Simon he gave the second name of Peter;
Mark 3:17 And to James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James, he gave the second name of Boanerges, which is, Sons of thunder:
Mark 3:18 And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James, the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Zealot;
Mark 3:19 And Judas Iscariot, who was false to him.
Mark 3:20 And he went into a house. And the people came together again, so that they were not even able to take bread.
Mark 3:21 And when his friends had news of it, they went out to get him, saying, He is off his head.
Mark 3:22 And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem, said, He has Beelzebub, and, By the ruler of evil spirits he sends evil spirits out of men.
Mark 3:23 And turning to them, he said to them in the form of a story, How is it possible for Satan to put out Satan?
Mark 3:24 If there is division in a kingdom, that kingdom will come to destruction;
Mark 3:25 And if there is division in a house, that house will come to destruction;
Mark 3:26 And if Satan is at war with himself, and there is division in him, he will not keep his place but will come to an end.
Mark 3:27 But no one is able to go into the house of the strong man and take his goods, without first putting cords round the strong man, and then he will take his goods.
Mark 3:28 Truly, I say to you, The sons of men will have forgiveness for all their sins and for all the evil words they say:
Mark 3:29 But whoever says evil things against the Holy Spirit will never have forgiveness, but the evil he has done will be with him for ever:
Mark 3:30 Because they said, He has an unclean spirit.
Mark 3:31 And his mother and brothers came and were outside, and sent for him, requesting to see him.
Mark 3:32 And a great number were seated round him; and they said to him, See, your mother and your brothers are outside looking for you.
Mark 3:33 And he said in answer, Who are my mother and my brothers?
Mark 3:34 And looking round at those who were seated about him, he said, See, my mother and my brothers!
Mark 3:35 Whoever does God's pleasure, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.
Mark 4:1 And again he was teaching by the seaside. And a very great number of people had come to him, so that he got into a boat on the sea and took his seat; and all the people were on the land by the seaside.
Mark 4:2 And he gave them teaching about a number of things in the form of stories, and said to them in his teaching, Give ear:
Mark 4:3 A man went out to put seed in the earth:
Mark 4:4 And while he was doing it, some was dropped by the wayside, and the birds came and took it for food.
Mark 4:5 And some went on the stones, where it had not much earth; and it came up straight away, because the earth was not deep:
Mark 4:6 And when the sun was high, it was burned; and because it had no root, it became dry and dead.
Mark 4:7 And some went among the thorns, and the thorns came up, and it had no room for growth and gave no fruit.
Mark 4:8 And some, falling on good earth, gave fruit, coming up and increasing, and giving thirty, sixty, and a hundred times as much.
Mark 4:9 And he said to them, Whoever has ears, let him give ear.
Mark 4:10 And when he was by himself, those who were round him with the twelve put questions to him about the purpose of the stories.
Mark 4:11 And he said to them, To you is given the secret of the kingdom of God, but to those who are outside, all things are given in the form of stories;
Mark 4:12 So that seeing they may see, and it will not be clear to them; and hearing it, they will not get the sense; for fear that they may be turned again to me and have forgiveness.
Mark 4:13 And he said to them, If you are not clear about this story, how will you be clear about the others?
Mark 4:14 The seed is the word.
Mark 4:15 And these are they by the wayside, where the word is planted; and when they have given ear, the Evil One comes straight away and takes away the word which has been planted in them.
Mark 4:16 And in the same way, these are they who are planted on the stones, who, when the word has come to their ears, straight away take it with joy;
Mark 4:17 And they have no root in themselves, but go on for a time; then, when trouble comes or pain, because of the word, they quickly become full of doubts.
Mark 4:18 And others are those planted among the thorns; these are they who have given ear to the word,
Mark 4:19 And the cares of this life, and the deceits of wealth, and the desire for other things coming in, put a stop to the growth of the word, and it gives no fruit.
Mark 4:20 And these are they who were planted on the good earth; such as give ear to the word, and take it into their hearts, and give fruit, thirty and sixty and a hundred times as much.
Mark 4:21 And he said to them, When the light comes in, do people put it under a vessel, or under the bed, and not on its table?
Mark 4:22 There is nothing covered which will not be seen openly, and nothing has been made secret which will not come to light.
Mark 4:23 If any man has ears, let him give ear.
Mark 4:24 And he said to them, Take care what you give ear to: in the same measure as you give you will get, and more will be given to you.
Mark 4:25 He who has, to him will be given: and he who has not, from him will be taken even that which he has.
Mark 4:26 And he said, Such is the kingdom of God, as if a man put seed in the earth,
Mark 4:27 And went to sleep and got up, night and day, and the seed came to growth, though he had no idea how.
Mark 4:28 The earth gives fruit by herself; first the leaf, then the head, then the full grain.
Mark 4:29 But when the grain is ready, he quickly sends men to get it cut, because the time for cutting has come.
Mark 4:30 And he said, What picture may we give of the kingdom of God, or with what story may we make it clear?
Mark 4:31 It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is put in the earth, is smaller than all the seeds on the earth,
Mark 4:32 But when it is planted, it comes up, and becomes taller than all the plants, and puts out great branches, so that the birds of heaven are able to take rest in its shade.
Mark 4:33 And with a number of such stories he gave them his teaching, as they were able to take it:
Mark 4:34 And without a story he said nothing to them: but privately to his disciples he made all things clear.
Mark 4:35 And on that day, when the evening had come, he said to them, Let us go over to the other side.
Mark 4:36 And going away from the people, they took him with them, as he was, in the boat. And other boats were with him.
Mark 4:37 And a great storm of wind came up, and the waves came into the boat, so that the boat was now becoming full.
Mark 4:38 And he himself was in the back of the boat, sleeping on the cushion: and they, awaking him, said, Master, is it nothing to you that we are in danger of destruction?
Mark 4:39 And he came out of his sleep, and gave strong orders to the wind, and said to the sea, Peace, be at rest. And the wind went down, and there was a great calm.
Mark 4:40 And he said to them, Why are you full of fear? have you still no faith?
Mark 4:41 And their fear was great, and they said one to another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea do his orders?
Mark 5:1 And they came to the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gerasenes.
Mark 5:2 And when he had got out of the boat, straight away there came to him from the place of the dead a man with an unclean spirit.
Mark 5:3 He was living in the place of the dead: and no man was able to keep him down, no, not with a chain;
Mark 5:4 Because he had frequently been prisoned in chains and iron bands, and the chains had been parted and the bands broken by him: and no man was strong enough to make him quiet.
Mark 5:5 And all the time, by day and by night, in the place of the dead, and in the mountains, he was crying out and cutting himself with stones.
Mark 5:6 And when he saw Jesus from far off, he went quickly to him and gave him worship;
Mark 5:7 And crying out with a loud voice he said, What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? In God's name, do not be cruel to me.
Mark 5:8 For Jesus had said to him, Come out of the man, you unclean spirit.
Mark 5:9 And Jesus said, What is your name? And he made answer, My name is Legion, because there are a great number of us.
Mark 5:10 And he made strong prayers to him not to send them away out of the country.
Mark 5:11 Now on the mountain side there was a great herd of pigs getting their food.
Mark 5:12 And they said to him, Send us into the pigs, so that we may go into them.
Mark 5:13 And he let them do it. And the unclean spirits came out and went into the pigs; and the herd went rushing down a sharp slope into the sea, about two thousand of them; and they came to their death in the sea.
Mark 5:14 And their keepers went running and gave an account of it in the town and in the country. And people came to see what had taken place.
Mark 5:15 And they came to Jesus, and saw the man in whom had been the evil spirits seated, clothed and with full use of his senses, and they were full of fear.
Mark 5:16 And those who had seen it gave them an account of what had been done to him who had the evil spirits, and of the fate of the pigs.
Mark 5:17 And they made a request to him to go out of their country.
Mark 5:18 And when he was getting into the boat, the man in whom had been the evil spirits had a great desire to come with him.
Mark 5:19 And he would not let him, but said to him, Go to your house, to your friends, and give them news of the great things the Lord has done for you, and how he had mercy on you.
Mark 5:20 And he went on his way, and made public in the country of Decapolis what great things Jesus had done for him: and all men were full of wonder.
Mark 5:21 And when Jesus had gone over again in the boat to the other side, a great number of people came to him: and he was by the sea.
Mark 5:22 And one of the rulers of the Synagogue, Jairus by name, came, and seeing him, went down at his feet,
Mark 5:23 And made strong prayers to him, saying, My little daughter is near to death: it is my prayer that you will come and put your hands on her, so that she may be made well, and have life.
Mark 5:24 And he went with him; and a great number of people went after him, and came round him.
Mark 5:25 And a woman, who had had a flow of blood for twelve years,
Mark 5:26 And had undergone much at the hands of a number of medical men, and had given all she had, and was no better, but even worse,
Mark 5:27 When she had news of the things which Jesus did, went among the people coming after him, and put her hand on his robe.
Mark 5:28 For she said, If I may only put my hand on his robe, I will be made well.
Mark 5:29 And straight away the fountain of her blood was stopped, and she had a feeling in her body that her disease had gone and she was well.
Mark 5:30 And straight away Jesus was conscious that power had gone out of him; and, turning to the people, he said, Who was touching my robe?
Mark 5:31 And his disciples said to him, You see the people round you on every side, and you say, Who was touching me?
Mark 5:32 And on his looking round to see her who had done this thing,
Mark 5:33 The woman, shaking with fear, conscious of what had been done to her, came and, falling on her face before him, gave him a true account of everything.
Mark 5:34 And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace, and be free from your disease.
Mark 5:35 And while he was still talking, they came from the ruler of the Synagogue's house, saying, Your daughter is dead: why are you still troubling the Master?
Mark 5:36 But Jesus, giving no attention to their words, said to the ruler of the Synagogue, Have no fear, only have faith.
Mark 5:37 And he did not let anyone come with him, but Peter and James and John, the brother of James.
Mark 5:38 And they came to the house of the ruler of the Synagogue; and he saw people running this way and that, and weeping and crying loudly.
Mark 5:39 And when he had gone in, he said to them, Why are you making such a noise and weeping? The child is not dead, but sleeping.
Mark 5:40 And they were laughing at him. But he, having sent them all out, took the father of the child and her mother and those who were with him, and went in where the child was.
Mark 5:41 And taking her by the hand, he said to her, Talitha cumi, which is, My child, I say to you, Get up.
Mark 5:42 And the young girl got up straight away, and was walking about; she being twelve years old. And they were overcome with wonder.
Mark 5:43 And he gave them special orders that they were not to say anything of this; and he said that some food was to be given to her.
Mark 6:1 And he went away from there, and came into his country; and his disciples went with him.
Mark 6:2 And when the Sabbath day had come, he was teaching in the Synagogue; and a number of people hearing him were surprised, saying, From where did this man get these things? and, What is the wisdom given to this man, and what are these works of power done by his hands?
Mark 6:3 Is not this the woodworker, the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were bitter against him.
Mark 6:4 And Jesus said to them, A prophet is nowhere without honour, but in his country, and among his relations, and in his family.
Mark 6:5 And he was unable to do any work of power there, but only to put his hands on one or two persons who were ill, and make them well.
Mark 6:6 And he was greatly surprised because they had no faith. And he went about the country places teaching.
Mark 6:7 And he gave orders to the twelve, and sent them out two by two; and he gave them authority over the unclean spirits;
Mark 6:8 And he said that they were to take nothing for their journey, but a stick only; no bread, no bag, no money in their pockets;
Mark 6:9 They were to go with common shoes on their feet, and not to take two coats.
Mark 6:10 And he said to them, Wherever you go into a house, make that your resting-place till you go away.
Mark 6:11 And whatever place will not take you in and will not give ear to you, when you go away, put off the dust from your feet as a witness against them.
Mark 6:12 And they went out, preaching the need for a change of heart in men.
Mark 6:13 And they sent out a number of evil spirits, and put oil on a great number who were ill, and made them well.
Mark 6:14 And king Herod had news of him, because his name was on the lips of all; and he said, John the Baptist has come back from the dead, and for this reason these powers are working in him.
Mark 6:15 But others said, It is Elijah. And others said, It is a prophet, even like one of the prophets.
Mark 6:16 But Herod, when he had news of it, said, John, whom I put to death, has come back from the dead.
Mark 6:17 For Herod himself had sent men out to take John and put him in prison, because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, whom he had taken for himself.
Mark 6:18 For John said to Herod, It is wrong for you to have your brother's wife.
Mark 6:19 And Herodias was bitter against him, desiring to put him to death; but she was not able;
Mark 6:20 For Herod was in fear of John, being conscious that he was an upright and holy man, and kept him safe. And hearing him, he was much troubled; and he gave ear to him gladly.
Mark 6:21 And the chance came when Herod on his birthday gave a feast to his lords, and the high captains, and the chief men of Galilee;
Mark 6:22 And when the daughter of Herodias herself came in and did a dance, Herod and those who were at table with him were pleased with her; and the king said to the girl, Make a request for anything and I will give it you.
Mark 6:23 And he took an oath, saying to her, Whatever is your desire I will give it to you, even half of my kingdom.
Mark 6:24 And she went out and said to her mother, What is my request to be? And she said, The head of John the Baptist.
Mark 6:25 And she came in quickly to the king, and said, My desire is that you give me straight away on a plate the head of John the Baptist.
Mark 6:26 And the king was very sad; but because of his oaths, and those who were with him at table, he would not say 'No' to her.
Mark 6:27 And straight away the king sent out one of his armed men, and gave him an order to come back with the head: and he went and took off John's head in prison,
Mark 6:28 And came back with the head on a plate, and gave it to the girl; and the girl gave it to her mother.
Mark 6:29 And when his disciples had news of it, they came and took up his body, and put it in its last resting-place.
Mark 6:30 And the twelve came together to Jesus; and they gave him an account of all the things they had done, and all they had been teaching.
Mark 6:31 And he said to them, Come away by yourselves to a quiet place, and take a rest for a time. Because there were a great number coming and going, and they had no time even for food.
Mark 6:32 And they went away in the boat to a waste place by themselves.
Mark 6:33 And the people saw them going, and a number of them, having knowledge who they were, went running there together on foot from all the towns, and got there before them.
Mark 6:34 And he got out, and saw a great mass of people, and he had pity on them, because they were like sheep without a keeper: and he gave them teaching about a number of things.
Mark 6:35 And at the end of the day, his disciples came to him and said, This place is waste land, and it is late:
Mark 6:36 Send them away, so that they may go into the country and small towns round about, and get some food for themselves.
Mark 6:37 But he said to them in answer, Give them food yourselves. And they said to him, Are we to go and get bread for two hundred pence, and give it to them?
Mark 6:38 And he said to them, How much bread have you? go and see. And when they had seen, they said, Five cakes of bread and two fishes.
Mark 6:39 And he made them all be seated in groups on the green grass.
Mark 6:40 And they were placed in groups, by hundreds and by fifties.
Mark 6:41 And he took the five cakes of bread and the two fishes and, looking up to heaven, he said words of blessing over them; and when the cakes were broken, he gave them to the disciples to put before the people; and he made division of the two fishes among them all.
Mark 6:42 And they all took of the food and had enough.
Mark 6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of the broken bits and of the fishes.
Mark 6:44 And those who took of the bread were five thousand men.
Mark 6:45 And straight away he made his disciples get into the boat, and go before him to the other side to Beth-saida, while he himself sent the people away.
Mark 6:46 And after he had sent them away, he went up into a mountain for prayer.
Mark 6:47 And by evening, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and he by himself on the land.
Mark 6:48 And seeing that they had trouble in getting their boat through the water, because the wind was against them, about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea; and he would have gone past them;
Mark 6:49 But they, when they saw him walking on the sea, took him for a spirit, and gave a loud cry:
Mark 6:50 For they all saw him, and were troubled. But straight away he said to them, Take heart, it is I, have no fear.
Mark 6:51 And he went to them into the boat, and the wind went down, and they were full of wonder in themselves;
Mark 6:52 For it was not clear to them about the bread; but their hearts were hard.
Mark 6:53 And when they had gone across, they came to Gennesaret, and got their boat to land.
Mark 6:54 And when they had got out of the boat, the people quickly had news of him,
Mark 6:55 And went running through all the country round about, and took on their beds those who were ill, to where it was said that he was.
Mark 6:56 And wherever he went, into small towns, or great towns, or into the country, they took those who were ill into the market-places, requesting him that they might put their hands even on the edge of his robe: and all those who did so were made well.
Mark 7:1 And there came together to him the Pharisees and certain of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem,
Mark 7:2 And had seen that some of his disciples took their bread with unclean, that is, unwashed, hands.
Mark 7:3 Now the Pharisees, and all the Jews, do not take food without washing their hands with care, keeping the old rule which has been handed down to them:
Mark 7:4 And when they come from the market-place, they take no food till their hands are washed; and a number of other orders there are, which have been handed down to them to keep--washings of cups and pots and brass vessels.
Mark 7:5 And the Pharisees and the scribes put the question to him, Why do your disciples not keep the rules of the fathers, but take their bread with unwashed hands?
Mark 7:6 And he said, Well did Isaiah say of you, you false ones: These people give me honour with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
Mark 7:7 But their worship is to no purpose, while they give as their teaching the rules of men.
Mark 7:8 For, turning away from the law of God, you keep the rules of men.
Mark 7:9 And he said to them, Truly you put on one side the law of God, so that you may keep the rules which have been handed down to you.
Mark 7:10 For Moses said, Give honour to your father and mother, and, He who says evil of father or mother, let him have the punishment of death:
Mark 7:11 But you say, If a man says to his father or his mother, That by which you might have had profit from me is Corban, that is to say, Given to God,
Mark 7:12 You no longer let him do anything for his father or his mother;
Mark 7:13 Making the word of God of no effect by your rule, which you have given: and a number of other such things you do.
Mark 7:14 And turning to the people again, he said to them, Give ear to me all of you, and let my words be clear to you:
Mark 7:15 There is nothing outside the man which, going into him, is able to make him unclean: but the things which come out of the man are those which make the man unclean.
Mark 7:16 
Mark 7:17 And when he had gone into the house away from all the people, his disciples put questions to him about the saying.
Mark 7:18 And he said to them, Have even you so little wisdom? Do you not see that whatever goes into a man from outside is not able to make him unclean,
Mark 7:19 Because it goes not into the heart but into the stomach, and goes out with the waste? He said this, making all food clean.
Mark 7:20 And he said, That which comes out of the man, that makes the man unclean.
Mark 7:21 Because from inside, from the heart of men, come evil thoughts and unclean pleasures,
Mark 7:22 The taking of goods and of life, broken faith between husband and wife, the desire of wealth, wrongdoing, deceit, sins of the flesh, an evil eye, angry words, pride, foolish acts:
Mark 7:23 All these evil things come from inside, and make the man unclean.
Mark 7:24 And he went away from there to the country of Tyre and Sidon. And he went into a house, desiring that no man might have knowledge of it: and he was not able to keep it secret.
Mark 7:25 But a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having had news of him, came straight away and went down at his feet.
Mark 7:26 Now the woman was a Greek, a Syro-phoenician by birth: and she made a request to him that he would send the evil spirit out of her daughter.
Mark 7:27 And he said to her, Let the children first have their food: for it is not right to take the children's bread and give it to the dogs.
Mark 7:28 But she said to him in answer, Yes, Lord: even the dogs under the table take the bits dropped by the children.
Mark 7:29 And he said to her, For this saying go your way; the evil spirit has gone out of your daughter.
Mark 7:30 And she went away to her house, and saw the child on the bed, and the evil spirit gone out.
Mark 7:31 And again he went out from Tyre, and came through Sidon to the sea of Galilee, through the country of Decapolis.
Mark 7:32 And they came to him with one who had no power of hearing and had trouble in talking; and they made a request to him to put his hands on him.
Mark 7:33 And he took him on one side from the people privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he put water from his mouth on the man's tongue with his finger;
Mark 7:34 And looking up to heaven, he took a deep breath, and said to him, Ephphatha, that is, Be open.
Mark 7:35 And his ears became open, and the band of his tongue was made loose, and his words became clear.
Mark 7:36 And he gave them orders not to give news of it to anyone; but the more he made this request, so much the more they made it public.
Mark 7:37 And they were overcome with wonder, saying, He has done all things well: he even gives back the power of hearing and the power of talking to those who have been without them.
