YLT

Genesis 1:1 In the beginning of God's preparing the heavens and the earth--
Genesis 1:2 the earth hath existed waste and void, and darkness [is] on the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God fluttering on the face of the waters,
Genesis 1:3 and God saith, `Let light be;' and light is.
Genesis 1:4 And God seeth the light that [it is] good, and God separateth between the light and the darkness,
Genesis 1:5 and God calleth to the light `Day,' and to the darkness He hath called `Night;' and there is an evening, and there is a morning--day one.
Genesis 1:6 And God saith, `Let an expanse be in the midst of the waters, and let it be separating between waters and waters.'
Genesis 1:7 And God maketh the expanse, and it separateth between the waters which [are] under the expanse, and the waters which [are] above the expanse: and it is so.
Genesis 1:8 And God calleth to the expanse `Heavens;' and there is an evening, and there is a morning--day second.
Genesis 1:9 And God saith, `Let the waters under the heavens be collected unto one place, and let the dry land be seen:' and it is so.
Numbers 1:1 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first of the second month, in the second year of their going out of the land of Egypt, saying:
Numbers 1:2 `Take ye up the sum of all the company of the sons of Israel by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names--every male by their polls;
Numbers 1:3 from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host in Israel, ye do number them by their hosts, thou and Aaron;
Numbers 1:4 and with you there is a man for a tribe, each is a head to the house of his fathers.
Numbers 1:5 `And these [are] the names of the men who stand with you: `For Reuben--Elizur son of Shedeur.
Numbers 1:6 `For Simeon--Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai.
Numbers 1:7 `For Judah--Nahshon son of Amminadab.
Numbers 1:8 `For Issachar--Nathaneel son of Zuar.
Numbers 2:1 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, and unto Aaron, saying,
Numbers 2:2 `Each by his standard, with ensigns of the house of their fathers, do the sons of Israel encamp; over-against round about the tent of meeting they encamp.'
Numbers 2:3 And those encamping eastward towards the sun-rising, [are of] the standard of the camp of Judah, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Judah [is] Nahshon, son of Amminadab;
Numbers 2:4 and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] four and seventy thousand and six hundred.
Numbers 2:5 And those encamping by him [are of] the tribe of Issachar; and the prince of the sons of Issachar [is] Nethaneel son of Zuar;
Numbers 2:6 and his host, and its numbered ones, [are] four and fifty thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 2:7 The tribe of Zebulun; and the prince of the sons of Zebulun [is] Eliab son of Helon;
Numbers 3:1 And these [are] births of Aaron and Moses, in the day of Jehovah's speaking with Moses in mount Sinai.
Numbers 3:2 And these [are] the names of the sons of Aaron: the first-born Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar;
Numbers 3:3 these [are] the names of the sons of Aaron, the anointed priests, whose hand he hath consecrated for acting as priest.
Numbers 3:4 And Nadab dieth--Abihu also--before Jehovah, in their bringing near strange fire before Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai, and sons they had not; and Eleazar--Ithamar also--acteth as priest in the presence of Aaron their father.
Numbers 3:5 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 3:6 `Bring near the tribe of Levi, and thou hast caused it to stand before Aaron the priest, and they have served him,
Numbers 3:7 and kept his charge, and the charge of all the company before the tent of meeting, to do the service of the tabernacle;
Numbers 3:8 and they have kept all the vessels of the tent of meeting, and the charge of the sons of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle;
Numbers 3:9 and thou hast given the Levites to Aaron and to his sons; they are surely given to him out of the sons of Israel.
Numbers 3:10 `And Aaron and his sons thou dost appoint, and they have kept their priesthood, and the stranger who cometh near is put to death.'
Numbers 3:11 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,
1 Samuel 1:1 And there is a certain man of Ramathaim-Zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name [is] Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Elihu, son of Tohu, son of Zuph, and Ephrathite,
1 Samuel 1:2 and he hath two wives, the name of the one [is] Hannah, and the name of the second Peninnah, and Peninnah hath children, and Hannah hath no children.
1 Samuel 1:3 And that man hath gone up out of his city from time to time, to bow himself, and to sacrifice, before Jehovah of Hosts, in Shiloh, and there [are] two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests to Jehovah.
1 Samuel 1:4 And the day cometh, and Elkanah sacrificeth, and he hath given to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions,
1 Samuel 1:5 and to Hannah he giveth a certain portion--double, for he hath loved Hannah, and Jehovah hath shut her womb;
1 Samuel 1:6 and her adversity hath also provoked her greatly, so as to make her tremble, for Jehovah hath shut up her womb.
1 Samuel 1:7 And so he doth year by year, from the time of her going up into the house of Jehovah, so it provoketh her, and she weepeth, and doth not eat.
1 Samuel 1:8 And Elkanah her husband saith to her, `Hannah, why weepest thou? and why dost thou not eat? and why is thy heart afflicted? am I not better to thee than ten sons?'
1 Samuel 1:9 And Hannah riseth after eating in Shiloh, and after drinking, and Eli the priest is sitting on the throne by the side-post of the temple of Jehovah.
1 Samuel 1:10 And she is bitter in soul, and prayeth unto Jehovah, and weepeth greatly,
2 Samuel 1:1 And it cometh to pass, after the death of Saul, that David hath returned from smiting the Amalekite, and David dwelleth in Ziklag two days,
2 Samuel 1:2 and it cometh to pass, on the third day, that lo, a man hath come in out of the camp from Saul, and his garments [are] rent, and earth on his head; and it cometh to pass, in his coming in unto David, that he falleth to the earth, and doth obeisance.
2 Samuel 1:3 And David saith to him, `Whence comest thou?' and he saith unto him, `Out of the camp of Israel I have escaped.'
2 Samuel 1:4 And David saith unto him, `What hath been the matter? declare, I pray thee, to me.' And he saith, that `The people hath fled from the battle, and also a multitude hath fallen of the people, and they die; and also Saul and Jonathan his son have died.'
2 Samuel 1:5 And David saith unto the youth who is declaring [it] to him, `How hast thou known that Saul and Jonathan his son [are] dead?'
2 Samuel 1:6 And the youth who is declaring [it] to him saith, I happened to meet in mount Gilboa, and lo, Saul is leaning on his spear; and lo, the chariots and those possessing horses have followed him;
2 Samuel 1:7 and he turneth behind him, and seeth me, and calleth unto me, and I say, Here [am] I.
2 Samuel 1:8 And he saith to me, Who [art] thou? and I say unto him, An Amalekite I [am] .'
Psalms 1:1 O the happiness of that one, who Hath not walked in the counsel of the wicked. And in the way of sinners hath not stood, And in the seat of scorners hath not sat;
Psalms 1:2 But--in the law of Jehovah [is] his delight, And in His law he doth meditate by day and by night:
Psalms 1:3 And he hath been as a tree, Planted by rivulets of water, That giveth its fruit in its season, And its leaf doth not wither, And all that he doth he causeth to prosper.
Psalms 1:4 Not so the wicked: But--as chaff that wind driveth away!
Psalms 1:5 Therefore the wicked rise not in judgment, Nor sinners in the company of the righteous,
Psalms 1:6 For Jehovah is knowing the way of the righteous, And the way of the wicked is lost!
Psalms 2:1 Why have nations tumultuously assembled? And do peoples meditate vanity?
Psalms 2:2 Station themselves do kings of the earth, And princes have been united together, Against Jehovah, and against His Messiah:
Psalms 2:3 `Let us draw off Their cords, And cast from us Their thick bands.'
Psalms 2:4 He who is sitting in the heavens doth laugh, The Lord doth mock at them.
Psalms 2:5 Then doth He speak unto them in His anger, And in His wrath He doth trouble them:
Psalms 2:6 `And I--I have anointed My King, Upon Zion--My holy hill.'
Psalms 2:7 I declare concerning a statute: Jehovah said unto me, `My Son Thou [art] , I to-day have brought thee forth.
Psalms 2:8 Ask of Me and I give nations--thy inheritance, And thy possession--the ends of earth.
Psalms 2:9 Thou dost rule them with a sceptre of iron, As a vessel of a potter Thou dost crush them.'
Psalms 2:10 And now, O kings, act wisely, Be instructed, O judges of earth,
Psalms 2:11 Serve ye Jehovah with fear, And rejoice with trembling.
Psalms 2:12 Kiss the Chosen One, lest He be angry, And ye lose the way, When His anger burneth but a little, O the happiness of all trusting in Him!
Psalms 3:1 A Psalm of David, in his fleeing from the face of Absalom his son. Jehovah, how have my distresses multiplied! Many are rising up against me.
Psalms 3:2 Many are saying of my soul, `There is no salvation for him in God.' Selah.
Psalms 3:3 And Thou, O Jehovah, [art] a shield for me, My honour, and lifter up of my head.
Psalms 3:4 My voice [is] unto Jehovah: I call: And He answereth me from his holy hill, Selah.
Psalms 3:5 I--I have lain down, and I sleep, I have waked, for Jehovah sustaineth me.
Psalms 3:6 I am not afraid of myriads of people, That round about they have set against me.
Psalms 3:7 Rise, O Jehovah! save me, my God. Because Thou hast smitten All mine enemies [on] the cheek. The teeth of the wicked Thou hast broken.
Psalms 3:8 Of Jehovah [is] this salvation; On Thy people [is] Thy blessing! Selah.
Psalms 4:1 To the Overseer with Stringed Instruments. --A Psalm of David. In my calling answer Thou me, O God of my righteousness. In adversity Thou gavest enlargement to me; Favour me, and hear my prayer.
Psalms 4:2 Sons of men! till when [is] my glory for shame? Ye love a vain thing, ye seek a lie. Selah.
Psalms 4:3 And know ye that Jehovah Hath separated a saintly one to Himself. Jehovah heareth in my calling to Him.
Psalms 4:4 `Tremble ye, and do not sin;' Say ye [thus] in your heart on your bed, And be ye silent. Selah.
Psalms 4:5 Sacrifice ye sacrifices of righteousness, And trust ye unto Jehovah.
Psalms 4:6 Many are saying, `Who doth show us good?' Lift on us the light of Thy face, O Jehovah,
Psalms 4:7 Thou hast given joy in my heart, From the time their corn and their wine Have been multiplied.
Psalms 4:8 In peace together I lie down and sleep, For Thou, O Jehovah, alone, In confidence dost cause me to dwell!
Psalms 5:1 To the Overseer, `Concerning the Inheritances.' --A Psalm of David. My sayings hear, O Jehovah, Consider my meditation.
Psalms 5:2 Be attentive to the voice of my cry, My king and my God, For unto Thee I pray habitually.
Psalms 5:3 Jehovah, [at] morning Thou hearest my voice, [At] morning I set in array for Thee, And I look out.
Psalms 5:4 For not a God desiring wickedness [art] Thou, Evil inhabiteth Thee not.
Psalms 5:5 The boastful station not themselves before Thine eyes: Thou hast hated all working iniquity.
Psalms 5:6 Thou destroyest those speaking lies, A man of blood and deceit Jehovah doth abominate.
Psalms 5:7 And I, in the abundance of Thy kindness, I enter Thy house, I bow myself toward Thy holy temple in Thy fear.
Psalms 5:8 O Jehovah, lead me in Thy righteousness, Because of those observing me, Make straight before me Thy way,
Psalms 5:9 For there is no stability in their mouth. Their heart [is] mischiefs, An open grave [is] their throat, Their tongue they make smooth.
Psalms 5:10 Declare them guilty, O God, Let them fall from their own counsels, In the abundance of their transgressions Drive them away, Because they have rebelled against Thee.
Psalms 5:11 And rejoice do all trusting in Thee, To the age they sing, and Thou coverest them over, And those loving Thy name exult in Thee.
Psalms 5:12 For Thou blessest the righteous, O Jehovah, As a buckler with favour dost compass him!
Psalms 6:1 To the Overseer with stringed instruments, on the octave. --A Psalm of David. O Jehovah, in Thine anger reprove me not, Nor in Thy fury chastise me.
Psalms 6:2 Favour me, O Jehovah, for I [am] weak, Heal me, O Jehovah, For troubled have been my bones,
Psalms 6:3 And my soul hath been troubled greatly, And Thou, O Jehovah, till when?
Psalms 6:4 Turn back, O Jehovah, draw out my soul, Save me for Thy kindness' sake.
Psalms 6:5 For there is not in death Thy memorial, In Sheol, who doth give thanks to Thee?
Psalms 6:6 I have been weary with my sighing, I meditate through all the night [on] my bed, With my tear my couch I waste.
Psalms 6:7 Old from provocation is mine eye, It is old because of all mine adversaries,
Psalms 6:8 Turn from me all ye workers of iniquity, For Jehovah heard the voice of my weeping,
Psalms 6:9 Jehovah hath heard my supplication, Jehovah my prayer receiveth.
Psalms 6:10 Ashamed and troubled greatly are all mine enemies, They turn back--ashamed [in] a moment!
Psalms 7:1 `The Erring One,' by David, that he sung to Jehovah concerning the words of Cush a Benjamite. O Jehovah, my God, in Thee I have trusted, Save me from all my pursuers, and deliver me.
Psalms 7:2 Lest he tear as a lion my soul, Rending, and there is no deliverer.
Psalms 7:3 O Jehovah, my God, if I have done this, If there is iniquity in my hands,
Psalms 7:4 If I have done my well-wisher evil, And draw mine adversary without cause,
Psalms 7:5 An enemy pursueth my soul, and overtaketh, And treadeth down to the earth my life, And my honour placeth in the dust. Selah.
Psalms 7:6 Rise, O Jehovah, in Thine anger, Be lifted up at the wrath of mine adversaries, And awake Thou for me: Judgment Thou hast commanded:
Psalms 7:7 And a company of peoples compass Thee, And over it on high turn Thou back,
Psalms 7:8 Jehovah doth judge the peoples; Judge me, O Jehovah, According to my righteousness, And according to mine integrity on me,
Psalms 7:9 Let, I pray Thee be ended the evil of the wicked, And establish Thou the righteous, And a trier of hearts and reins is the righteous God.
Psalms 7:10 My shield [is] on God, Saviour of the upright in heart!
Psalms 7:11 God [is] a righteous judge, And He is not angry at all times.
Psalms 7:12 If [one] turn not, His sword he sharpeneth, His bow he hath trodden--He prepareth it,
Psalms 7:13 Yea, for him He hath prepared Instruments of death, His arrows for burning pursuers He maketh.
Psalms 7:14 Lo, he travaileth [with] iniquity, And he hath conceived perverseness, And hath brought forth falsehood.
Psalms 7:15 A pit he hath prepared, and he diggeth it, And he falleth into a ditch he maketh.
Psalms 7:16 Return doth his perverseness on his head, And on his crown his violence cometh down.
Psalms 7:17 I thank Jehovah, According to His righteousness, And praise the name of Jehovah Most High!
Psalms 8:1 To the Overseer, `On the Gittith.' A Psalm of David. Jehovah, our Lord, How honourable Thy name in all the earth! Who settest thine honour on the heavens.
Psalms 8:2 From the mouths of infants and sucklings Thou hast founded strength, Because of Thine adversaries, To still an enemy and a self-avenger.
Psalms 8:3 For I see Thy heavens, a work of Thy fingers, Moon and stars that Thou didst establish.
Psalms 8:4 What [is] man that Thou rememberest him? The son of man that Thou inspectest him?
Psalms 8:5 And causest him to lack a little of Godhead, And with honour and majesty compassest him.
Psalms 8:6 Thou dost cause him to rule Over the works of Thy hands, All Thou hast placed under his feet.
Psalms 8:7 Sheep and oxen, all of them, And also beasts of the field,
Psalms 8:8 Bird of the heavens, and fish of the sea, Passing through the paths of the seas!
Psalms 8:9 Jehovah, our Lord, How honourable Thy name in all the earth!
Psalms 9:1 To the Overseer, `On the Death of Labben.' --A Psalm of David. I confess, O Jehovah, with all my heart, I recount all Thy wonders,
Psalms 9:2 I rejoice and exult in Thee, I praise Thy Name, O Most High.
Psalms 9:3 In mine enemies turning backward, they stumble and perish from Thy face.
Psalms 9:4 For Thou hast done my judgment and my right. Thou hast sat on a throne, A judge of righteousness.
Psalms 9:5 Thou hast rebuked nations, Thou hast destroyed the wicked, Their name Thou hast blotted out to the age and for ever.
Psalms 9:6 O thou Enemy, Finished have been destructions for ever, As to cities thou hast plucked up, Perished hath their memorial with them.
Psalms 9:7 And Jehovah to the age abideth, He is preparing for judgment His throne.
Psalms 9:8 And He judgeth the world in righteousness, He judgeth the peoples in uprightness.
Psalms 9:9 And Jehovah is a tower for the bruised, A tower for times of adversity.
Psalms 9:10 They trust in Thee who do know Thy name, For Thou hast not forsaken Those seeking Thee, O Jehovah.
Psalms 9:11 Sing ye praise to Jehovah, inhabiting Zion, Declare ye among the peoples His acts,
Psalms 9:12 For He who is seeking for blood Them hath remembered, He hath not forgotten the cry of the afflicted.
Psalms 9:13 Favour me, O Jehovah, See mine affliction by those hating me, Thou who liftest me up from the gates of death,
Psalms 9:14 So that I recount all Thy praise, In the gates of the daughter of Zion. I rejoice on Thy salvation.
Psalms 9:15 Sunk have nations in a pit they made, In a net that they hid hath their foot been captured.
Psalms 9:16 Jehovah hath been known, Judgment He hath done, By a work of his hands Hath the wicked been snared. Meditation. Selah.
Psalms 9:17 The wicked do turn back to Sheol, All nations forgetting God.
Psalms 9:18 For not for ever is the needy forgotten, The hope of the humble lost to the age.
Psalms 9:19 Rise, O Jehovah, let not man be strong, Let nations be judged before Thy face.
Psalms 9:20 Appoint, O Jehovah, a director to them, Let nations know they [are] men! Selah.
Psalms 10:1 Why, Jehovah, dost Thou stand at a distance? Thou dost hide in times of adversity,
Psalms 10:2 Through the pride of the wicked, Is the poor inflamed, They are caught in devices that they devised.
Psalms 10:3 Because the wicked hath boasted Of the desire of his soul, And a dishonest gainer he hath blessed, He hath despised Jehovah.
Psalms 10:4 The wicked according to the height of his face, inquireth not. `God is not!' [are] all his devices.
Psalms 10:5 Pain do his ways at all times, On high [are] Thy judgments before him, All his adversaries--he puffeth at them.
Psalms 10:6 He hath said in his heart, `I am not moved,' To generation and generation not in evil.
Psalms 10:7 Of oaths his mouth is full, And deceits, and fraud: Under his tongue [is] perverseness and iniquity,
Psalms 10:8 He doth sit in an ambush of the villages, In secret places he doth slay the innocent. His eyes for the afflicted watch secretly,
Psalms 10:9 He lieth in wait in a secret place, as a lion in a covert. He lieth in wait to catch the poor, He catcheth the poor, drawing him into his net.
Psalms 10:10 He is bruised--he boweth down, Fallen by his mighty ones hath the afflicted.
Psalms 10:11 He said in his heart, `God hath forgotten, He hath hid His face, He hath never seen.'
Psalms 10:12 Arise, O Jehovah! O God, lift up Thy hand! Forget not the humble.
Psalms 10:13 Wherefore hath the wicked despised God? He hath said in his heart, `It is not required.'
Psalms 10:14 Thou hast seen, For Thou perverseness and anger beholdest; By giving into Thy hand, On Thee doth the afflicted leave [it] , Of the fatherless Thou hast been an helper.
Psalms 10:15 Break the arm of the wicked and the evil, Seek out his wickedness, find none;
Psalms 10:16 Jehovah [is] king to the age, and for ever, The nations have perished out of His land!
Psalms 10:17 The desire of the humble Thou hast heard, O Jehovah. Thou preparest their heart; Thou causest Thine ear to attend,
Psalms 10:18 To judge the fatherless and bruised: He addeth no more to oppress--man of the earth!
Song of Solomon 1:1 The Song of Songs, that [is] Solomon's.
Song of Solomon 1:2 Let him kiss me with kisses of his mouth, For better [are] thy loves than wine.
Song of Solomon 1:3 For fragrance [are] thy perfumes good. Perfume emptied out--thy name, Therefore have virgins loved thee!
Song of Solomon 1:4 Draw me: after thee we run, The king hath brought me into his inner chambers, We do joy and rejoice in thee, We mention thy loves more than wine, Uprightly they have loved thee!
Song of Solomon 1:5 Dark [am] I, and comely, daughters of Jerusalem, As tents of Kedar, as curtains of Solomon.
Song of Solomon 1:6 Fear me not, because I [am] very dark, Because the sun hath scorched me, The sons of my mother were angry with me, They made me keeper of the vineyards, My vineyard--my own--I have not kept.
Song of Solomon 1:7 Declare to me, thou whom my soul hath loved, Where thou delightest, Where thou liest down at noon, For why am I as one veiled, By the ranks of thy companions?
Song of Solomon 1:8 If thou knowest not, O fair among women, Get thee forth by the traces of the flock, And feed thy kids by the shepherds' dwellings!
Song of Solomon 1:9 To my joyous one in chariots of Pharaoh, I have compared thee, my friend,
Malachi 1:1 The burden of a word of Jehovah unto Israel by the hand of Malachi:
Malachi 1:2 I have loved you, said Jehovah, And ye have said, `In what hast Thou loved us?'
Malachi 1:3 Is not Esau Jacob's brother? --an affirmation of Jehovah, And I love Jacob, and Esau I have hated, And I make his mountains a desolation, And his inheritance for dragons of a wilderness.
Malachi 1:4 Because Edom saith, `We have been made poor, And we turn back and we build the wastes,' Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: They do build, and I do destroy, And [men] have called to them, `O region of wickedness,' `O people whom Jehovah defied to the age.'
Malachi 1:5 And your eyes do see, and ye say, `Magnified is Jehovah beyond the border of Israel,
Malachi 1:6 A son honoureth a father, and a servant his master. And if I [am] a father, where [is] Mine honour? And if I [am] a master, where [is] My fear? Said Jehovah of Hosts to you, O priests, despising My name! And ye have said: `In what have we despised Thy name?'
Malachi 1:7 Ye are bringing nigh on Mine altar polluted bread, And ye have said: `In what have we polluted Thee?' In your saying: `The table of Jehovah--it [is] despicable,'
Malachi 1:8 And when ye bring nigh the blind for sacrifice, `There is no evil,' And when ye bring nigh the lame and sick, `There is no evil;' Bring it near, I pray thee, to thy governor--Doth he accept thee? or doth he lift up thy face? Said Jehovah of Hosts.
Malachi 1:9 And now, appease, I pray thee, the face of God, And He doth favour us; From your own hand hath this been, Doth He accept of you appearances? Said Jehovah of Hosts.
Malachi 1:10 Who [is] even among you, And he shutteth the two-leaved doors? Yea, ye do not kindle Mine altar for nought, I have no pleasure in you, said Jehovah of Hosts, And a present I do not accept of your hand.
Malachi 1:11 For, from the rising of the sun to its going in, Great [is] My name among nations, And in every place perfume is brought nigh to My name, and a pure present, For great [is] My name among nations, Said Jehovah of Hosts.
Malachi 1:12 And ye are polluting it in your saying, `The table of Jehovah--it is polluted, As to its fruit--despicable is its food.'
Malachi 1:13 And ye have said, `Lo, what a weariness,' And ye have puffed at it, said Jehovah of Hosts, And ye have brought in plunder, And the lame and the sick, And ye have brought in the present! Do I accept it from your hand? said Jehovah.
Malachi 1:14 And cursed [is] a deceiver, who hath in his drove a male, And is vowing, and is sacrificing a marred thing to the Lord, For a great king [am] I, said Jehovah of Hosts, And My name [is] revered among nations!
Malachi 2:1 And now, to you [is] this charge, O priests,
Matthew 1:1 A roll of the birth of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham.
Matthew 1:2 Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Judah and his brethren,
Matthew 1:3 and Judah begat Pharez and Zarah of Tamar, and Pharez begat Hezron, and Hezron begat Ram,
Matthew 1:4 and Ram begat Amminadab, and Amminadab begat Nahshon, and Nahshon begat Salmon,
Matthew 1:5 and Salmon begat Boaz of Rahab, and Boaz begat Obed of Ruth, and Obed begat Jesse,
Matthew 1:6 and Jesse begat David the king. And David the king begat Solomon, of her [who had been] Uriah's,
Matthew 1:7 and Solomon begat Rehoboam, and Rehoboam begat Abijah, and Abijah begat Asa,
Matthew 1:8 and Asa begat Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat begat Joram, and Joram begat Uzziah,
Matthew 1:9 and Uzziah begat Jotham, and Jotham begat Ahaz, and Ahaz begat Hezekiah,
Mark 1:1 A beginning of the good news of Jesus Christ, Son of God.
Mark 1:2 As it hath been written in the prophets, `Lo, I send My messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee,' --
Mark 1:3 `A voice of one calling in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, straight make ye his paths,' --
Mark 1:4 John came baptizing in the wilderness, and proclaiming a baptism of reformation--to remission of sins,
Mark 1:5 and there were going forth to him all the region of Judea, and they of Jerusalem, and they were all baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
Mark 1:6 And John was clothed with camel's hair, and a girdle of skin around his loins, and eating locusts and honey of the field,
Mark 1:7 and he proclaimed, saying, `He doth come--who is mightier than I--after me, of whom I am not worthy--having stooped down--to loose the latchet of his sandals;
Mark 1:8 I indeed did baptize you with water, but he shall baptize you with the Holy Spirit.'
Mark 1:9 And it came to pass in those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John at the Jordan;
Mark 1:10 and immediately coming up from the water, he saw the heavens dividing, and the Spirit as a dove coming down upon him;
Mark 1:11 and a voice came out of the heavens, `Thou art My Son--the Beloved, in whom I did delight.'
Mark 1:12 And immediately doth the Spirit put him forth to the wilderness,
Mark 1:13 and he was there in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by the Adversary, and he was with the beasts, and the messengers were ministering to him.
Mark 1:14 And after the delivering up of John, Jesus came to Galilee, proclaiming the good news of the reign of God,
Mark 1:15 and saying--`Fulfilled hath been the time, and the reign of God hath come nigh, reform ye, and believe in the good news.'
Mark 1:16 And, walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon, and Andrew his brother, casting a drag into the sea, for they were fishers,
Mark 1:17 and Jesus said to them, `Come ye after me, and I shall make you to become fishers of men;'
Mark 1:18 and immediately, having left their nets, they followed him.
Mark 1:19 And having gone on thence a little, he saw James of Zebedee, and John his brother, and they were in the boat refitting the nets,
Mark 1:20 and immediately he called them, and, having left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, they went away after him.
Mark 1:21 And they go on to Capernaum, and immediately, on the sabbaths, having gone into the synagogue, he was teaching,
Mark 1:22 and they were astonished at his teaching, for he was teaching them as having authority, and not as the scribes.
Mark 1:23 And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out,
Mark 1:24 saying, `Away! what--to us and to thee, Jesus the Nazarene? thou didst come to destroy us; I have known thee who thou art--the Holy One of God.'
Mark 1:25 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, `Be silenced, and come forth out of him,'
Mark 1:26 and the unclean spirit having torn him, and having cried with a great voice, came forth out of him,
Mark 1:27 and they were all amazed, so as to reason among themselves, saying, `What is this? what new teaching [is] this? that with authority also the unclean spirits he commandeth, and they obey him!'
Mark 1:28 And the fame of him went forth immediately to all the region, round about, of Galilee.
Mark 1:29 And immediately, having come forth out of the synagogue, they went to the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John,
Mark 1:30 and the mother-in-law of Simon was lying fevered, and immediately they tell him about her,
Mark 1:31 and having come near, he raised her up, having laid hold of her hand, and the fever left her immediately, and she was ministering to them.
Mark 1:32 And evening having come, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all who were ill, and who were demoniacs,
Mark 1:33 and the whole city was gathered together near the door,
Mark 1:34 and he healed many who were ill of manifold diseases, and many demons he cast forth, and was not suffering the demons to speak, because they knew him.
Mark 1:35 And very early, it being yet night, having risen, he went forth, and went away to a desert place, and was there praying;
Mark 1:36 and Simon and those with him went in quest of him,
Mark 1:37 and having found him, they say to him, --`All do seek thee;'
Mark 1:38 and he saith to them, `We may go to the next towns, that there also I may preach, for for this I came forth.'
Mark 1:39 And he was preaching in their synagogues, in all Galilee, and is casting out the demons,
Mark 1:40 and there doth come to him a leper, calling on him, and kneeling to him, and saying to him--`If thou mayest will, thou art able to cleanse me.'
Mark 1:41 And Jesus having been moved with compassion, having stretched forth the hand, touched him, and saith to him, `I will; be thou cleansed;'
Mark 1:42 and he having spoken, immediately the leprosy went away from him, and he was cleansed.
Mark 1:43 And having sternly charged him, immediately he put him forth,
Mark 1:44 and saith to him, `See thou mayest say nothing to any one, but go away, thyself shew to the priest, and bring near for thy cleansing the things Moses directed, for a testimony to them.'
Mark 1:45 And he, having gone forth, began to proclaim much, and to spread abroad the thing, so that no more he was able openly to enter into the city, but he was without in desert places, and they were coming unto him from every quarter.
Mark 2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum, after [some] days, and it was heard that he is in the house,
Mark 2:2 and immediately many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door, and he was speaking to them the word.
Mark 2:3 And they come unto him, bringing a paralytic, borne by four,
Mark 2:4 and not being able to come near to him because of the multitude, they uncovered the roof where he was, and, having broken [it] up, they let down the couch on which the paralytic was lying,
Mark 2:5 and Jesus having seen their faith, saith to the paralytic, `Child, thy sins have been forgiven thee.'
Mark 2:6 And there were certain of the scribes there sitting, and reasoning in their hearts,
Mark 2:7 `Why doth this one thus speak evil words? who is able to forgive sins except one--God?'
Mark 2:8 And immediately Jesus, having known in his spirit that they thus reason in themselves, said to them, `Why these things reason ye in your hearts?
Mark 2:9 which is easier, to say to the paralytic, The sins have been forgiven to thee? or to say, Rise, and take up thy couch, and walk?
Mark 2:10 `And, that ye may know that the Son of Man hath authority on the earth to forgive sins--(he saith to the paralytic) --
Mark 2:11 I say to thee, Rise, and take up thy couch, and go away to thy house;'
Mark 2:12 and he rose immediately, and having taken up the couch, he went forth before all, so that all were astonished, and do glorify God, saying--`Never thus did we see.'
Mark 2:13 And he went forth again by the sea, and all the multitude was coming unto him, and he was teaching them,
Mark 2:14 and passing by, he saw Levi of Alpheus sitting at the tax-office, and saith to him, `Be following me,' and he, having risen, did follow him.
Mark 2:15 And it came to pass, in his reclining (at meat) in his house, that many tax-gatherers and sinners were reclining (at meat) with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many, and they followed him.
Mark 2:16 And the scribes and the Pharisees, having seen him eating with the tax-gatherers and sinners, said to his disciples, `Why--that with the tax-gatherers and sinners he doth eat and drink?'
Mark 2:17 And Jesus, having heard, saith to them, `They who are strong have no need of a physician, but they who are ill; I came not to call righteous men, but sinners to reformation.'
Mark 2:18 And the disciples of John and those of the Pharisees were fasting, and they come and say to him, `Wherefore do the disciples of John and those of the Pharisees fast, and thy disciples do not fast?'
Mark 2:19 And Jesus said to them, `Are the sons of the bride-chamber able, while the bridegroom is with them, to fast? so long time as they have the bridegroom with them they are not able to fast;
Mark 2:20 but days shall come when the bridegroom may be taken from them, and then they shall fast--in those days.
Mark 2:21 `And no one a patch of undressed cloth doth sew on an old garment, and if not--the new filling it up doth take from the old and the rent doth become worse;
Mark 2:22 and no one doth put new wine into old skins, and if not--the new wine doth burst the skins, and the wine is poured out, and the skins will be destroyed; but new wine into new skins is to be put.'
Mark 2:23 And it came to pass--he is going along on the sabbaths through the corn-fields--and his disciples began to make a way, plucking the ears,
Mark 2:24 and the Pharisees said to him, `Lo, why do they on the sabbaths that which is not lawful?'
Mark 2:25 And he said to them, `Did ye never read what David did, when he had need and was hungry, he and those with him?
Mark 2:26 how he went into the house of God, (at `Abiathar the chief priest,') and the loaves of the presentation did eat, which it is not lawful to eat, except to the priests, and he gave also to those who were with him?'
Mark 2:27 And he said to them, `The sabbath for man was made, not man for the sabbath,
Mark 2:28 so that the son of man is lord also of the sabbath.'
Mark 3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue, and there was there a man having the hand withered,
Mark 3:2 and they were watching him, whether on the sabbaths he will heal him, that they might accuse him.
Mark 3:3 And he saith to the man having the hand withered, `Rise up in the midst.'
Mark 3:4 And he saith to them, `Is it lawful on the sabbaths to do good, or to do evil? life to save, or to kill?' but they were silent.
Mark 3:5 And having looked round upon them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their heart, he saith to the man, `Stretch forth thy hand;' and he stretched forth, and his hand was restored whole as the other;
Mark 3:6 and the Pharisees having gone forth, immediately, with the Herodians, were taking counsel against him how they might destroy him.
Mark 3:7 And Jesus withdrew with his disciples unto the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea,
Mark 3:8 and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea and beyond the Jordan; and they about Tyre and Sidon--a great multitude--having heard how great things he was doing, came unto him.
Mark 3:9 And he said to his disciples that a little boat may wait on him, because of the multitude, that they may not press upon him,
Mark 3:10 for he did heal many, so that they threw themselves on him, in order to touch him--as many as had plagues;
Mark 3:11 and the unclean spirits, when they were seeing him, were falling down before him, and were crying, saying--`Thou art the Son of God;'
Mark 3:12 and many times he was charging them that they might not make him manifest.
Mark 3:13 And he goeth up to the mountain, and doth call near whom he willed, and they went away to him;
Mark 3:14 and he appointed twelve, that they may be with him, and that he may send them forth to preach,
Mark 3:15 and to have power to heal the sicknesses, and to cast out the demons.
Mark 3:16 And he put on Simon the name Peter;
Mark 3:17 and James of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, and he put on them names--Boanerges, that is, `Sons of thunder;'
Mark 3:18 and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James of Alpheus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Cananite,
Mark 3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who did also deliver him up; and they come into a house.
Mark 3:20 And come together again doth a multitude, so that they are not able even to eat bread;
Mark 3:21 and his friends having heard, went forth to lay hold on him, for they said that he was beside himself,
Mark 3:22 and the scribes who [are] from Jerusalem having come down, said--`He hath Beelzeboul,' and--`By the ruler of the demons he doth cast out the demons.'
Mark 3:23 And, having called them near, in similes he said to them, `How is the Adversary able to cast out the Adversary?
Mark 3:24 and if a kingdom against itself be divided, that kingdom cannot be made to stand;
Mark 3:25 and if a house against itself be divided, that house cannot be made to stand;
Mark 3:26 and if the Adversary did rise against himself, and hath been divided, he cannot be made to stand, but hath an end.
Mark 3:27 `No one is able the vessels of the strong man--having entered into his house--to spoil, if first he may not bind the strong man, and then his house he will spoil.
Mark 3:28 `Verily I say to you, that all the sins shall be forgiven to the sons of men, and evil speakings with which they might speak evil,
Mark 3:29 but whoever may speak evil in regard to the Holy Spirit hath not forgiveness--to the age, but is in danger of age-during judgment;'
Mark 3:30 because they said, `He hath an unclean spirit.'
Mark 3:31 Then come do his brethren and mother, and standing without, they sent unto him, calling him,
Mark 3:32 and a multitude was sitting about him, and they said to him, `Lo, thy mother and thy brethren without do seek thee.'
Mark 3:33 And he answered them, saying, `Who is my mother, or my brethren?'
Mark 3:34 And having looked round in a circle to those sitting about him, he saith, `Lo, my mother and my brethren!
Mark 3:35 for whoever may do the will of God, he is my brother, and my sister, and mother.'
Mark 4:1 And again he began to teach by the sea, and there was gathered unto him a great multitude, so that he, having gone into the boat, sat in the sea, and all the multitude was near the sea, on the land,
Mark 4:2 and he taught them many things in similes, and he said to them in his teaching:
Mark 4:3 `Hearken, lo, the sower went forth to sow;
Mark 4:4 and it came to pass, in the sowing, some fell by the way, and the fowls of the heaven did come and devour it;
Mark 4:5 and other fell upon the rocky ground, where it had not much earth, and immediately it sprang forth, because of not having depth of earth,
Mark 4:6 and the sun having risen, it was scorched, and because of not having root it did wither;
Mark 4:7 and other fell toward the thorns, and the thorns did come up, and choke it, and fruit it gave not;
Mark 4:8 and other fell to the good ground, and was giving fruit, coming up and increasing, and it bare, one thirty-fold, and one sixty, and one an hundred.'
Mark 4:9 And he said to them, `He who is having ears to hear--let him hear.'
Mark 4:10 And when he was alone, those about him, with the twelve, did ask him of the simile,
Mark 4:11 and he said to them, `To you it hath been given to know the secret of the reign of God, but to those who are without, in similes are all the things done;
Mark 4:12 that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they may turn, and the sins may be forgiven them.'
Mark 4:13 And he saith to them, `Have ye not known this simile? and how shall ye know all the similes?
Mark 4:14 He who is sowing doth sow the word;
Mark 4:15 and these are they by the way where the word is sown: and whenever they may hear, immediately cometh the Adversary, and he taketh away the word that hath been sown in their hearts.
Mark 4:16 `And these are they, in like manner, who on the rocky ground are sown: who, whenever they may hear the word, immediately with joy do receive it,
Mark 4:17 and have not root in themselves, but are temporary; afterward tribulation or persecution having come because of the word, immediately they are stumbled.
Mark 4:18 `And these are they who toward the thorns are sown: these are they who are hearing the word,
Mark 4:19 and the anxieties of this age, and the deceitfulness of the riches, and the desires concerning the other things, entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful.
Mark 4:20 `And these are they who on the good ground have been sown: who do hear the word, and receive, and do bear fruit, one thirty-fold, and one sixty, and one an hundred.'
Mark 4:21 And he said to them, `Doth the lamp come that under the measure it may be put, or under the couch--not that it may be put on the lamp-stand?
Mark 4:22 for there is not anything hid that may not be manifested, nor was anything kept hid but that it may come to light.
Mark 4:23 If any hath ears to hear--let him hear.'
Mark 4:24 And he said to them, `Take heed what ye hear; in what measure ye measure, it shall be measured to you; and to you who hear it shall be added;
Mark 4:25 for whoever may have, there shall be given to him, and whoever hath not, also that which he hath shall be taken from him.'
Mark 4:26 And he said, `Thus is the reign of God: as if a man may cast the seed on the earth,
Mark 4:27 and may sleep, and may rise night and day, and the seed spring up and grow, he hath not known how;
Mark 4:28 for of itself doth the earth bear fruit, first a blade, afterwards an ear, afterwards full corn in the ear;
Mark 4:29 and whenever the fruit may yield itself, immediately he doth send forth the sickle, because the harvest hath come.'
Mark 4:30 And he said, `To what may we liken the reign of God, or in what simile may we compare it?
Mark 4:31 As a grain of mustard, which, whenever it may be sown on the earth, is less than any of the seeds that are on the earth;
Mark 4:32 and whenever it may be sown, it cometh up, and doth become greater than any of the herbs, and doth make great branches, so that under its shade the fowls of the heaven are able to rest.'
Mark 4:33 And with many such similes he was speaking to them the word, as they were able to hear,
Mark 4:34 and without a simile he was not speaking to them, and by themselves, to his disciples he was expounding all.
Mark 4:35 And he saith to them on that day, evening having come, `We may pass over to the other side;'
Mark 4:36 and having let away the multitude, they take him up as he was in the boat, and other little boats also were with him.
Mark 4:37 And there cometh a great storm of wind, and the waves were beating on the boat, so that it is now being filled,
Mark 4:38 and he himself was upon the stern, upon the pillow sleeping, and they wake him up, and say to him, `Teacher, art thou not caring that we perish?'
Mark 4:39 And having waked up, he rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, `Peace, be stilled;' and the wind did lull, and there was a great calm:
Mark 4:40 and he said to them, `Why are ye so fearful? how have ye not faith?'
Mark 4:41 and they feared a great fear, and said one to another, `Who, then, is this, that even the wind and the sea do obey him?'
Mark 5:1 And they came to the other side of the sea, to the region of the Gadarenes,
Mark 5:2 and he having come forth out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit,
Mark 5:3 who had his dwelling in the tombs, and not even with chains was any one able to bind him,
Mark 5:4 because that he many times with fetters and chains had been bound, and pulled in pieces by him had been the chains, and the fetters broken in pieces, and none was able to tame him,
Mark 5:5 and always, night and day, in the mountains, and in the tombs he was, crying and cutting himself with stones.
Mark 5:6 And, having seen Jesus from afar, he ran and bowed before him,
Mark 5:7 and having called with a loud voice, he said, `What--to me and to thee, Jesus, Son of God the Most High? I adjure thee by God, mayest thou not afflict me!'
Mark 5:8 (for he said to him, `Come forth, spirit unclean, out of the man,')
Mark 5:9 and he was questioning him, `What [is] thy name?' and he answered, saying, `Legion [is] my name, because we are many;'
Mark 5:10 and he was calling on him much, that he may not send them out of the region.
Mark 5:11 And there was there, near the mountains, a great herd of swine feeding,
Mark 5:12 and all the demons did call upon him, saying, `Send us to the swine, that into them we may enter;'
Mark 5:13 and immediately Jesus gave them leave, and having come forth, the unclean spirits did enter into the swine, and the herd did rush down the steep place to the sea--and they were about two thousand--and they were choked in the sea.
Mark 5:14 And those feeding the swine did flee, and told in the city, and in the fields, and they came forth to see what it is that hath been done;
Mark 5:15 and they come unto Jesus, and see the demoniac, sitting, and clothed, and right-minded--him having had the legion--and they were afraid;
Mark 5:16 and those having seen [it] , declared to them how it had come to pass to the demoniac, and about the swine;
Mark 5:17 and they began to call upon him to go away from their borders.
Mark 5:18 And he having gone into the boat, the demoniac was calling on him that he may be with him,
Mark 5:19 and Jesus did not suffer him, but saith to him, `Go away to thy house, unto thine own [friends] , and tell them how great things the Lord did to thee, and dealt kindly with thee;
Mark 5:20 and he went away, and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how great things Jesus did to him, and all were wondering.
Mark 5:21 And Jesus having passed over in the boat again to the other side, there was gathered a great multitude to him, and he was near the sea,
Mark 5:22 and lo, there doth come one of the chiefs of the synagogue, by name Jairus, and having seen him, he doth fall at his feet,
Mark 5:23 and he was calling upon him much, saying--`My little daughter is at the last extremity--that having come, thou mayest lay on her [thy] hands, so that she may be saved, and she shall live;'
Mark 5:24 and he went away with him. And there was following him a great multitude, and they were thronging him,
Mark 5:25 and a certain woman, having an issue of blood twelve years,
Mark 5:26 and many things having suffered under many physicians, and having spent all that she had, and having profited nothing, but rather having come to the worse,
Mark 5:27 having heard about Jesus, having come in the multitude behind, she touched his garment,
Mark 5:28 for she said--`If even his garments I may touch, I shall be saved;'
Mark 5:29 and immediately was the fountain of her blood dried up, and she knew in the body that she hath been healed of the plague.
Mark 5:30 And immediately Jesus having known in himself that out of him power had gone forth, having turned about in the multitude, said, `Who did touch my garments?'
Mark 5:31 and his disciples said to him, `Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and thou sayest, `Who did touch me!'
Mark 5:32 And he was looking round to see her who did this,
Mark 5:33 and the woman, having been afraid, and trembling, knowing what was done on her, came, and fell down before him, and told him all the truth,
Mark 5:34 and he said to her, `Daughter, thy faith hath saved thee; go away in peace, and be whole from thy plague.'
Mark 5:35 As he is yet speaking, there come from the chief of the synagogue's [house, certain] , saying--`Thy daughter did die, why still dost thou harass the Teacher?'
Mark 5:36 And Jesus immediately, having heard the word that is spoken, saith to the chief of the synagogue, `Be not afraid, only believe.'
Mark 5:37 And he did not suffer any one to follow with him, except Peter, and James, and John the brother of James;
Mark 5:38 and he cometh to the house of the chief of the synagogue, and seeth a tumult, much weeping and wailing;
Mark 5:39 and having gone in he saith to them, `Why do ye make a tumult, and weep? the child did not die, but doth sleep;
Mark 5:40 and they were laughing at him. And he, having put all forth, doth take the father of the child, and the mother, and those with him, and goeth in where the child is lying,
Mark 5:41 and, having taken the hand of the child, he saith to her, `Talitha cumi;' which is, being interpreted, `Damsel (I say to thee), arise.'
Mark 5:42 And immediately the damsel arose, and was walking, for she was twelve years [old] ; and they were amazed with a great amazement,
Mark 5:43 and he charged them much, that no one may know this thing, and he said that there be given to her to eat.
Mark 6:1 And he went forth thence, and came to his own country, and his disciples do follow him,
Mark 6:2 and sabbath having come, he began in the synagogue to teach, and many hearing were astonished, saying, `Whence hath this one these things? and what the wisdom that was given to him, that also such mighty works through his hands are done?
Mark 6:3 Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, and Joses, and Judas, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us?' --and they were being stumbled at him.
Mark 6:4 And Jesus said to them--`A prophet is not without honour, except in his own country, and among his kindred, and in his own house;'
Mark 6:5 and he was not able there any mighty work to do, except on a few infirm people having put hands he did heal [them] ;
Mark 6:6 and he wondered because of their unbelief. And he was going round the villages, in a circle, teaching,
Mark 6:7 and he doth call near the twelve, and he began to send them forth two by two, and he was giving them power over the unclean spirits,
Mark 6:8 and he commanded them that they may take nothing for the way, except a staff only--no scrip, no bread, no brass in the girdle,
Mark 6:9 but having been shod with sandals, and ye may not put on two coats.
Mark 6:10 And he said to them, `Whenever ye may enter into a house, there remain till ye may depart thence,
Mark 6:11 and as many as may not receive you, nor hear you, going out thence, shake off the dust that is under your feet for a testimony to them; verily I say to you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom or Gomorrah in a day of judgment than for that city.'
Mark 6:12 And having gone forth they were preaching that [men] might reform,
Mark 6:13 and many demons they were casting out, and they were anointing with oil many infirm, and they were healing [them] .
Mark 6:14 And the king Herod heard, (for his name became public,) and he said--`John the Baptist out of the dead was raised, and because of this the mighty powers are working in him.'
Mark 6:15 Others said--`It is Elijah,' and others said--`It is a prophet, or as one of the prophets.'
Mark 6:16 And Herod having heard, said--`He whom I did behead--John--this is he; he was raised out of the dead.'
Mark 6:17 For Herod himself, having sent forth, did lay hold on John, and bound him in the prison, because of Herodias the wife of Philip his brother, because he married her,
Mark 6:18 for John said to Herod--`It is not lawful to thee to have the wife of thy brother;'
Mark 6:19 and Herodias was having a quarrel with him, and was willing to kill him, and was not able,
Mark 6:20 for Herod was fearing John, knowing him a man righteous and holy, and was keeping watch over him, and having heard him, was doing many things, and hearing him gladly.
Mark 6:21 And a seasonable day having come, when Herod on his birthday was making a supper to his great men, and to the chiefs of thousands, and to the first men of Galilee,
Mark 6:22 and the daughter of that Herodias having come in, and having danced, and having pleased Herod and those reclining (at meat) with him, the king said to the damsel, `Ask of me whatever thou wilt, and I will give to thee,'
Mark 6:23 and he sware to her--`Whatever thou mayest ask me, I will give to thee--unto the half of my kingdom.'
Mark 6:24 And she, having gone forth, said to her mother, `What shall I ask for myself?' and she said, `The head of John the Baptist;'
Mark 6:25 and having come in immediately with haste unto the king, she asked, saying, `I will that thou mayest give me presently, upon a plate, the head of John the Baptist.'
Mark 6:26 And the king--made very sorrowful--because of the oaths and of those reclining (at meat) with him, would not put her away,
Mark 6:27 and immediately the king having sent a guardsman, did command his head to be brought,
Mark 6:28 and he having gone, beheaded him in the prison, and brought his head upon a plate, and did give it to the damsel, and the damsel did give it to her mother;
Mark 6:29 and having heard, his disciples came and took up his corpse, and laid it in the tomb.
Mark 6:30 And the apostles are gathered together unto Jesus, and they told him all, and how many things they did, and how many things they taught,
Mark 6:31 and he said to them, `Come ye yourselves apart to a desert place, and rest a little,' for those coming and those going were many, and not even to eat had they opportunity,
Mark 6:32 and they went away to a desert place, in the boat, by themselves.
Mark 6:33 And the multitudes saw them going away, and many recognised him, and by land from all the cities they ran thither, and went before them, and came together to him,
Mark 6:34 and having come forth, Jesus saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion on them, that they were as sheep not having a shepherd, and he began to teach many things.
Mark 6:35 And now the hour being advanced, his disciples having come near to him, say, --`The place is desolate, and the hour is now advanced,
Mark 6:36 let them away, that, having gone away to the surrounding fields and villages, they may buy to themselves loaves, for what they may eat they have not.'
Mark 6:37 And he answering said to them, `Give ye them to eat,' and they say to him, `Having gone away, may we buy two hundred denaries' worth of loaves, and give to them to eat?'
Mark 6:38 And he saith to them, `How many loaves have ye? go and see;' and having known, they say, `Five, and two fishes.'
Mark 6:39 And he commanded them to make all recline in companies upon the green grass,
Mark 6:40 and they sat down in squares, by hundreds, and by fifties.
Mark 6:41 And having taken the five loaves and the two fishes, having looked up to the heaven, he blessed, and brake the loaves, and was giving to his disciples, that they may set before them, and the two fishes divided he to all,
Mark 6:42 and they did all eat, and were filled,
Mark 6:43 and they took up of broken pieces twelve hand-baskets full, and of the fishes,
Mark 6:44 and those eating of the loaves were about five thousand men.
Mark 6:45 And immediately he constrained his disciples to go into the boat, and to go before to the other side, unto Bethsaida, till he may let the multitude away,
Mark 6:46 and having taken leave of them, he went away to the mountain to pray.
Mark 6:47 And evening having come, the boat was in the midst of the sea, and he alone upon the land;
Mark 6:48 and he saw them harassed in the rowing, for the wind was against them, and about the fourth watch of the night he doth come to them walking on the sea, and wished to pass by them.
Mark 6:49 And they having seen him walking on the sea, thought [it] to be an apparition, and cried out,
Mark 6:50 for they all saw him, and were troubled, and immediately he spake with them, and saith to them, `Take courage, I am [he] , be not afraid.'
Mark 6:51 And he went up unto them to the boat, and the wind lulled, and greatly out of measure were they amazed in themselves, and were wondering,
Mark 6:52 for they understood not concerning the loaves, for their heart hath been hard.
Mark 6:53 And having passed over, they came upon the land of Gennesaret, and drew to the shore,
Mark 6:54 and they having come forth out of the boat, immediately having recognised him,
Mark 6:55 having run about through all that region round about, they began upon the couches to carry about those ill, where they were hearing that he is,
Mark 6:56 and wherever he was going, to villages, or cities, or fields, in the market-places they were laying the infirm, and were calling upon him, that they may touch if it were but the fringe of his garment, and as many as were touching him were saved.
Mark 7:1 And gathered together unto him are the Pharisees, and certain of the scribes, having come from Jerusalem,
Mark 7:2 and having seen certain of his disciples with defiled hands--that is, unwashed--eating bread, they found fault;
Mark 7:3 for the Pharisees, and all the Jews, if they do not wash the hands to the wrist, do not eat, holding the tradition of the elders,
Mark 7:4 and, [coming] from the market-place, if they do not baptize themselves, they do not eat; and many other things there are that they received to hold, baptisms of cups, and pots, and brazen vessels, and couches.
Mark 7:5 Then question him do the Pharisees and the scribes, `Wherefore do thy disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but with unwashed hands do eat the bread?'
Mark 7:6 and he answering said to them--`Well did Isaiah prophesy concerning you, hypocrites, as it hath been written, This people with the lips doth honour Me, and their heart is far from Me;
Mark 7:7 and in vain do they worship Me, teaching teachings, commands of men;
Mark 7:8 for, having put away the command of God, ye hold the tradition of men, baptisms of pots and cups; and many other such like things ye do.'
Mark 7:9 And he said to them, `Well do ye put away the command of God that your tradition ye may keep;
Mark 7:10 for Moses said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, He who is speaking evil of father or mother--let him die the death;
Mark 7:11 and ye say, If a man may say to father or to mother, Korban (that is, a gift), [is] whatever thou mayest be profited out of mine,
Mark 7:12 and no more do ye suffer him to do anything for his father or for his mother,
Mark 7:13 setting aside the word of God for your tradition that ye delivered; and many such like things ye do.'
Mark 7:14 And having called near all the multitude, he said to them, `Hearken to me, ye all, and understand;
Mark 7:15 there is nothing from without the man entering into him that is able to defile him, but the things coming out from him, those are the things defiling the man.
Mark 7:16 If any hath ears to hear--let him hear.'
Mark 7:17 And when he entered into a house from the multitude, his disciples were questioning him about the simile,
Mark 7:18 and he saith to them, `So also ye are without understanding! Do ye not perceive that nothing from without entering into the man is able to defile him?
Mark 7:19 because it doth not enter into his heart, but into the belly, and into the drain it doth go out, purifying all the meats.'
Mark 7:20 And he said--`That which is coming out from the man, that doth defile the man;
Mark 7:21 for from within, out of the heart of men, the evil reasonings do come forth, adulteries, whoredoms, murders,
Mark 7:22 thefts, covetous desires, wickedness, deceit, arrogance, an evil eye, evil speaking, pride, foolishness;
Mark 7:23 all these evils do come forth from within, and they defile the man.'
Mark 7:24 And from thence having risen, he went away to the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and having entered into the house, he wished none to know, and he was not able to be hid,
Mark 7:25 for a woman having heard about him, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having come, fell at his feet, --
Mark 7:26 and the woman was a Greek, a Syro-Phenician by nation--and was asking him, that the demon he may cast forth out of her daughter.
Mark 7:27 And Jesus said to her, `Suffer first the children to be filled, for it is not good to take the children's bread, and to cast [it] to the little dogs.'
Mark 7:28 And she answered and saith to him, `Yes, sir; for the little dogs also under the table do eat of the children's crumbs.'
Mark 7:29 And he said to her, `Because of this word go; the demon hath gone forth out of thy daughter;'
Mark 7:30 and having come away to her house, she found the demon gone forth, and the daughter laid upon the couch.
Mark 7:31 And again, having gone forth from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, he came unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis,
Mark 7:32 and they bring to him a deaf, stuttering man, and they call on him that he may put the hand on him.
Mark 7:33 And having taken him away from the multitude by himself, he put his fingers to his ears, and having spit, he touched his tongue,
Mark 7:34 and having looked to the heaven, he sighed, and saith to him, `Ephphatha,' that is, `Be thou opened;'
Mark 7:35 and immediately were his ears opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he was speaking plain.
Mark 7:36 And he charged them that they may tell no one, but the more he was charging them, the more abundantly they were proclaiming [it] ,
Mark 7:37 and they were being beyond measure astonished, saying, `Well hath he done all things; both the deaf he doth make to hear, and the dumb to speak.'
